.TH odbcinst.ini 5 "Thu 27 Jun 2013" "version 2.3.2" "unixODBC manual pages"

.SH NAME
/etc/odbcinst.ini - An unixODBC drivers configuration

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B /etc/odbcinst.ini
is a text configuration file for unixODBC drivers. It can be edited by hand,
but the recommended way to update this file is to use the
.BR odbcinst (1)
utility.

.SH FILE FORMAT
The general .ini file format is:

.RS
.nf
.BI [ SectionName1 ]
.IB key1 " = " value1
.IB key2 " = " value2
.B ...

.BI [ SectionName2 ]
.IB key1 " = " value1
.IB key2 " = " value2
.B ...
.fi
.RE

Each ODBC driver has its own section and can be referred to by the name of its
section. Recognized configuration keys are:

.IP \fBDescription
A text string briefly describing the driver.

.IP \fBDriver
A filesystem path to the actual driver library.

.IP \fBSetup
A filesystem path to the driver setup library.

.IP \fBFileUsage
.BR odbcinst (1)
entry, if you edit the configuration file by hand, you have to supply it yourself.

.SS TEMPLATE FILES
The recommended way to manage the drivers is using the
.BR odbcinst (1)
utility. You can install the drivers by supplying it with template file, which
has the same format as this file.

.SH EXAMPLES
An example of the actual PostgreSQL driver:

.RS
.nf
[PostgreSQL]
Description = PostgreSQL driver for GNU/Linux
Driver      = /usr/lib/psqlodbcw.so
Setup       = /usr/lib/libodbcpsqlS.so
FileUsage   = 1
.fi
.RE

By specifying the driver like that, you can then reference it in the
.BR odbc.ini (5)
as follows:

.RS
.nf
...
Driver = PostgreSQL
...
.fi
.RE

The recommended way to add that driver is by creating template file containg:

.RS
.nf
[PostgreSQL]
Description = PostgreSQL driver for GNU/Linux
Driver      = /usr/lib/psqlodbcw.so
Setup       = /usr/lib/libodbcpsqlS.so
.fi
.RE

and call the 
.BR odbcinst (1):

.RS
.BI "# odbcinst -i -d -f " template.ini
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR odbcinst (1),
.BR odbc.ini (5)

.SH AUTHORS
The authors of unixODBC are Peter Harvey <\fIpharvey@codebydesign.com\fR> and
Nick Gorham <\fInick@lurcher.org\fR>. For the full list of contributors see the
AUTHORS file.

.SH COPYRIGHT
unixODBC is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For details
about the license, see the COPYING file.
