.TH odbcinst 1 "Wed 26 Jun 2013" "version 2.3.2" "unixODBC manual pages"

.SH NAME
odbcinst - An unixODBC tool for manipulating configuration files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odbcinst
.I ACTION OBJECT OPTIONS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B odbcinst
is a command line tool which has been created for allowing people who
are developing the install scripts/RPMs for Drivers to be able to easily
create/remove entries in odbc.ini and odbcinst.ini. This command line tool is a
complement to the shared library of the same name (libodbcinst.so). This tool is
a part of the odbcinst component of unixODBC.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS ACTIONS

.IP -i
Install (add section to config file) new \fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP -u
Uninstall (remove section from config file) existing \fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP -q
Query the config files and print the options for specified \fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP -j
Prints current configuration of unixODBC, listing (among others) the paths to the
configuration files.

.IP -c
Calls SQLCreateDataSource

.IP -m
Calls SQLManageDataSources

.IP --version
Prints program version and exits.

.SS OBJECTS

.IP -d
The \fIACTION\fR affect drivers (and thus the odbcinst.ini configuration file).

.IP -s
The \fIACTION\fR affect data sources (and thus the user or system odbc.ini
configuration file).

.SS OPTIONS

.IP "-f \fIFILE\fR"
The \fIFILE\fR is template file, describing the configuration of installed
\fIOBJECT\fR (only valid for the -i \fIACTION\fR).

.IP -r
Same as the -f \fIOPTION\fR, only take the standard input as the template file.

.IP "-n \fINAME\fR"
Specifies the \fINAME\fR of the \fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP -v
Turn off verbose mode. This turns off all information, warning and error
messages.

.IP -l
The specified data source is system-wide. Has any effect only with the -s
\fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP -h
The specified data source is user-specific. Has any effect only with the -s
\fIOBJECT\fR.

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
This command returns zero on success and non-zero value on failure.

.SH FILES

.I /etc/odbinst.ini
.RS
Configuration file containing all the database drivers specifications. See
.BR odbcinst.ini (5)
for more details.
.RE

.I /etc/odbc.ini
.RS
System-wide data sources specifications. See
.BR odbc.ini (5)
for more details.
.RE

.I $HOME/.odbc.ini
.RS
User-specific data sources specifications. See
.BR odbc.ini (5)
for more details.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR odbcinst.ini (5),
.BR odbc.ini (5)

.SH AUTHORS
The authors of unixODBC are Peter Harvey <\fIpharvey@codebydesign.com\fR> and
Nick Gorham <\fInick@lurcher.org\fR>. For the full list of contributors see the
AUTHORS file.

.SH COPYRIGHT
unixODBC is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For details
about the license, see the COPYING file.
