.TH SLAPO-MEMBEROF 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation, All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See the COPYRIGHT file.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapo\-memberof \- Reverse Group Membership overlay to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B memberof
overlay to
.BR slapd (8)
allows automatic reverse group membership maintenance.
Any time a group entry is modified, its members are modified as appropriate
in order to keep a DN-valued "is member of" attribute updated with the DN
of the group.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The config directives that are specific to the
.B memberof
overlay must be prefixed by
.BR memberof\- ,
to avoid potential conflicts with directives specific to the underlying 
database or to other stacked overlays.

.TP
.B overlay memberof
This directive adds the memberof overlay to the current database; see
.BR slapd.conf (5)
for details.

.LP
The following
.B slapd.conf
configuration options are defined for the memberof overlay.

.TP
.BI memberof\-group\-oc \ <group-oc>
The value 
.I <group-oc> 
is the name of the objectClass that triggers the reverse group membership
update.
It defaults to \fIgroupOfNames\fP.

.TP
.BI memberof\-member\-ad \ <member-ad>
The value 
.I <member-ad> 
is the name of the attribute that contains the names of the members
in the group objects; it must be DN-valued.
It defaults to \fImember\fP.

.TP
.BI memberof\-memberof\-ad \ <memberof-ad>
The value 
.I <memberof-ad> 
is the name of the attribute that contains the names of the groups
an entry is member of; it must be DN-valued.  Its contents are 
automatically updated by the overlay.
It defaults to \fImemberOf\fP.

.TP
.BI memberof\-dn \ <dn>
The value 
.I <dn> 
contains the DN that is used as \fImodifiersName\fP for internal 
modifications performed to update the reverse group membership.
It defaults to the \fIrootdn\fP of the underlying database.

.TP
.BI "memberof\-dangling {" ignore ", " drop ", " error "}"
This option determines the behavior of the overlay when, during 
a modification, it encounters dangling references.
The default is
.IR ignore ,
which may leave dangling references.
Other options are
.IR drop ,
which discards those modifications that would result in dangling
references, and
.IR error ,
which causes modifications that would result in dangling references
to fail.

.TP
.BI memberof\-dangling\-error \ <error-code>
If
.BR memberof\-dangling
is set to
.IR error ,
this configuration parameter can be used to modify the response code
returned in case of violation.  It defaults to "constraint violation",
but other implementations are known to return "no such object" instead.

.TP
.BI "memberof\-refint {" true "|" FALSE "}"
This option determines whether the overlay will try to preserve
referential integrity or not.
If set to
.IR TRUE ,
when an entry containing values of the "is member of" attribute is modified,
the corresponding groups are modified as well.

.LP
The memberof overlay may be used with any backend that provides full 
read-write functionality, but it is mainly intended for use 
with local storage backends. The maintenance operations it performs
are internal to the server on which the overlay is configured and
are never replicated. Replica servers should be configured with their
own instances of the memberOf overlay if it is desired to maintain
these memberOf attributes on the replicas.

.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd\-config (5),
.BR slapd (8).
The
.BR slapo\-memberof (5)
overlay supports dynamic configuration via
.BR back-config .
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.P
This module was written in 2005 by Pierangelo Masarati for SysNet s.n.c.

