.TH SLAPD-DNSSRV 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapd\-dnssrv \- DNS SRV referral backend to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The DNSSRV backend to
.BR slapd (8)
serves up referrals based upon SRV resource records held in
the Domain Name System.
.LP
This backend is experimental.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The DNSSRV backend has no backend nor database specific options.
It is configured simply by "database dnssrv" followed a suffix
directive, e.g. suffix "".
.SH ACCESS CONTROL
The
.B dnssrv
backend does not honor all ACL semantics as described in
.BR slapd.access (5).
In fact, this backend only implements the
.B search
operation when the
.B manageDSAit
control (RFC 3296) is used, otherwise for every operation a referral,
whenever appropriate, or an error is returned.
Currently, there is no means to condition the returning of the referral
by means of ACLs; no access control is implemented, except for 
.B read (=r)
access to the returned entries, which is actually provided by the frontend.
Note, however, that the information returned by this backend is collected
through the DNS, so it is public by definition.
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
\fB"OpenLDAP Root Service - An experimental LDAP referral
service"\fR [RFC 3088],
.br
\fB"OpenLDAP LDAP Root Service"\fR <http://www.openldap.org/faq/?file=393)>,
.br
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd (8)
