.TH LDAP_EXTENDED_OPERATION 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_extended_operation, ldap_extended_operation_s \- Extends the LDAP operations to the LDAP server.
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_extended_operation(
.RS
.ft B
LDAP *\fIld\fB,
const char *\fIrequestoid\fB,
const struct berval *\fIrequestdata\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIsctrls\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIcctrls\fB,
int *\fImsgidp\fB );
.RE
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_extended_operation_s(
.RS
.ft B
LDAP *\fIld\fB,
const char *\fIrequestoid\fB,
const struct berval *\fIrequestdata\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIsctrls\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIcctrls\fB,
char **\fIretoidp\fB,
struct berval **\fIretdatap\fB );
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_extended_operation_s()
routine is used to synchronously perform an LDAP extended operation.
It takes \fIrequestoid\fP, which points to a dotted-decimal OID string
identifying the extended operation to perform. \fIrequestdata\fP is the
data required for the request, \fIsctrls\fP is an array of LDAPControl
structures to use with this extended operation, \fIcctrls\fP is an array
of LDAPControl structures that list the client controls to use with
this extended operation.
.LP
The output parameter \fIretoidp\fP points to a dotted-decimal OID
string returned by the LDAP server.  The memory used by the string
should be freed with the
.BR ldap_memfree (3)
function.
The output parameter \fIretdatap\fP points to a pointer to a berval
structure that contains the returned data.  If no data is returned
by the server, the pointer is set this to NULL.  The memory used by
this structure should be freed with the
.BR ber_bvfree (3)
function.
.LP
The
.B ldap_extended_operation()
works just like
.BR ldap_extended_operation_s() ,
but the operation is asynchronous.  It provides the message id of
the request it initiated in the integer pointed to be \fImsgidp\fP.
The result of this operation can be obtained by calling
.BR ldap_result(3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ber_bvfree (3),
.BR ldap_memfree (3),
.BR ldap_parse_extended_result (3),
.BR ldap_result (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
