.TH LDAP_ERROR 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_perror, ld_errno, ldap_result2error, ldap_errlist, ldap_err2string \- LDAP protocol error handling routines
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
char *ldap_err2string( int \fIerr\fB );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_err2string()
routine provides short description of the various codes returned by
routines in this library.  The returned string is a pointer to a
static area that should not be modified.

These codes are either negative,
indicating an API error code; positive, indicating an LDAP resultCode
other than \'success' (0), or - zero, indicating both successful use
of the API and the LDAP resultCode \'success' (0).

The code associated with an LDAP session is accessible using
.BR ldap_get_option (3)
and
.BR ldap_set_option (3)
with the
.B LDAP_OPT_RESULT_CODE
option (previously called
.BR LDAP_OPT_ERROR_NUMBER ).

.SH PROTOCOL RESULT CODES

This section provides a partial list of protocol codes recognized
by the library.  As LDAP is extensible, additional values may be
returned.  A complete listing of \fIregistered\fP LDAP result codes
can be obtained from the \fIInternet Assigned Numbers Authority\fP
<http://www.iana.org>.

.LP
.TP 20
.SM LDAP_SUCCESS
The request was successful.
.TP
.SM LDAP_OPERATIONS_ERROR
An operations error occurred.
.TP
.SM LDAP_PROTOCOL_ERROR
A protocol violation was detected.
.TP
.SM LDAP_TIMELIMIT_EXCEEDED
An LDAP time limit was exceeded.
.TP
.SM LDAP_SIZELIMIT_EXCEEDED
An LDAP size limit was exceeded.
.TP
.SM LDAP_COMPARE_FALSE
A compare operation returned false.
.TP
.SM LDAP_COMPARE_TRUE
A compare operation returned true.
.TP
.SM LDAP_STRONG_AUTH_NOT_SUPPORTED
The LDAP server does not support strong authentication.
.TP
.SM LDAP_STRONG_AUTH_REQUIRED
Strong authentication is required for the operation.
.TP
.SM LDAP_PARTIAL_RESULTS
Partial results only returned.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NO_SUCH_ATTRIBUTE
The attribute type specified does not exist in the entry.
.TP
.SM LDAP_UNDEFINED_TYPE
The attribute type specified is invalid.
.TP
.SM LDAP_INAPPROPRIATE_MATCHING
Filter type not supported for the specified attribute.
.TP
.SM LDAP_CONSTRAINT_VIOLATION
An attribute value specified violates some constraint (e.g., a postalAddress
has too many lines, or a line that is too long).
.TP
.SM LDAP_TYPE_OR_VALUE_EXISTS
An attribute type or attribute value specified already exists in the entry.
.TP
.SM LDAP_INVALID_SYNTAX
An invalid attribute value was specified.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NO_SUCH_OBJECT
The specified object does not exist in The Directory.
.TP
.SM LDAP_ALIAS_PROBLEM
An alias in The Directory points to a nonexistent entry.
.TP
.SM LDAP_INVALID_DN_SYNTAX
A syntactically invalid DN was specified.
.TP
.SM LDAP_IS_LEAF
The object specified is a leaf.
.TP
.SM LDAP_ALIAS_DEREF_PROBLEM
A problem was encountered when dereferencing an alias.
.TP
.SM LDAP_INAPPROPRIATE_AUTH
Inappropriate authentication was specified (e.g., LDAP_AUTH_SIMPLE was
specified and the entry does not have a userPassword attribute).
.TP
.SM LDAP_INVALID_CREDENTIALS
Invalid credentials were presented (e.g., the wrong password).
.TP
.SM LDAP_INSUFFICIENT_ACCESS
The user has insufficient access to perform the operation.
.TP
.SM LDAP_BUSY
The DSA is busy.
.TP
.SM LDAP_UNAVAILABLE
The DSA is unavailable.
.TP
.SM LDAP_UNWILLING_TO_PERFORM
The DSA is unwilling to perform the operation.
.TP
.SM LDAP_LOOP_DETECT
A loop was detected.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NAMING_VIOLATION
A naming violation occurred.
.TP
.SM LDAP_OBJECT_CLASS_VIOLATION
An object class violation occurred (e.g., a "must" attribute was missing
from the entry).
.TP
.SM LDAP_NOT_ALLOWED_ON_NONLEAF
The operation is not allowed on a nonleaf object.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NOT_ALLOWED_ON_RDN
The operation is not allowed on an RDN.
.TP
.SM LDAP_ALREADY_EXISTS
The entry already exists.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NO_OBJECT_CLASS_MODS
Object class modifications are not allowed.
.TP
.SM LDAP_OTHER
An unknown error occurred.

.SH API ERROR CODES

This section provides a complete list of API error codes recognized
by the library.   Note that LDAP_SUCCESS indicates success of an
API call in addition to representing the return of the LDAP
\'success' resultCode.


.LP
.TP 20
.SM LDAP_SERVER_DOWN
The LDAP library can't contact the LDAP server.
.TP
.SM LDAP_LOCAL_ERROR
Some local error occurred.  This is usually a failed dynamic memory allocation.
.TP
.SM LDAP_ENCODING_ERROR
An error was encountered encoding parameters to send to the LDAP server.
.TP
.SM LDAP_DECODING_ERROR
An error was encountered decoding a result from the LDAP server.
.TP
.SM LDAP_TIMEOUT
A timelimit was exceeded while waiting for a result.
.TP
.SM LDAP_AUTH_UNKNOWN
The authentication method specified to ldap_bind() is not known.
.TP
.SM LDAP_FILTER_ERROR
An invalid filter was supplied to ldap_search() (e.g., unbalanced
parentheses).
.TP
.SM LDAP_PARAM_ERROR
An ldap routine was called with a bad parameter.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NO_MEMORY
An memory allocation (e.g., malloc(3) or other dynamic memory
allocator) call failed in an ldap library routine.
.TP
.SM LDAP_USER_CANCELED
Indicates the user cancelled the operation.
.TP
.SM LDAP_CONNECT_ERROR
Indicates a connection problem.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NOT_SUPPORTED
Indicates the routine was called in a manner not supported by the library.
.TP
.SM LDAP_CONTROL_NOT_FOUND
Indicates the control provided is unknown to the client library.
.TP
.SM LDAP_NO_RESULTS_RETURNED
Indicates no results returned.
.TP
.SM LDAP_MORE_RESULTS_TO_RETURN
Indicates more results could be returned.
.TP
.SM LDAP_CLIENT_LOOP
Indicates the library has detected a loop in its processing.
.TP
.SM LDAP_REFERRAL_LIMIT_EXCEEDED
Indicates the referral limit has been exceeded.

.SH DEPRECATED
.so Deprecated

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
