.TH LDAP_ABANDON 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_abandon_ext \- Abandon an LDAP operation in progress
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_abandon_ext(
.RS
.ft B
LDAP *\fIld\fB,
Bint \fImsgid\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIsctrls\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIcctrls\fB );
.RE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
routine is used to send a LDAP Abandon request for an
operation in progress.  The \fImsgid\fP passed should be the
message id of an outstanding LDAP operation, such as returned by
.BR ldap_search_ext (3).
.LP
.BR ldap_abandon_ext ()
checks to see if the result of the operation has already come in.  If it
has, it deletes it from the queue of pending messages.  If not,
it sends an LDAP abandon request to the LDAP server.
.LP
The caller can expect that the result of an abandoned operation
will not be returned from a future call to
.BR ldap_result (3).
.LP
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
allows server and client controls to be passed in via the
.I sctrls
and
.I cctrls
parameters, respectively.
.LP
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
returns a code indicating success or, in the case of failure, the
nature of the failure.  See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for details.
.SH DEPRECATED INTERFACES
The
.B ldap_abandon()
routine is deprecated in favor of the
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
routine. 
.LP
.so Deprecated

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3),
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_search_ext (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project

