.TH LDAP_ADD 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_add_ext, ldap_add_ext_s \- Perform an LDAP add operation
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
.nf
int ldap_add_ext(
.RS
.ft B
LDAP *\fIld,
const char *\fIdn\fB,
LDAPMod **\fIattrs\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIsctrls\fB,
LDAPControl **\fIcctrls\fB,
int *\fImsgidp\fB );
.RE
.LP
.ft B
.nf
int ldap_add_ext_s(
.RS
LDAP *\fIld\fB,
const char *\fIdn\fB,
LDAPMod **\fIattrs\fB,
LDAPControl *\fIsctrls\fB,
LDAPControl *\fIcctrls\fB );
.RE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_add_ext_s()
routine is used to perform an LDAP add operation.
It takes \fIdn\fP, the DN of the entry to add, and \fIattrs\fP, a
null-terminated array of the entry's attributes.  The LDAPMod structure
is used to represent attributes, with the \fImod_type\fP and
\fImod_values\fP fields being used as described under
.BR ldap_modify_ext (3),
and the \fIldap_op\fP field being used only if you need to specify
the LDAP_MOD_BVALUES option. Otherwise, it should be set to zero.
.LP
Note that all entries except that
specified by the last component in the given DN must already exist.
.B ldap_add_ext_s()
returns an code indicating success or, in the case of failure,
indicating the nature of failure of the operation.  See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for more details.
.LP
The
.B ldap_add_ext()
routine works just like
.BR ldap_add_ext_s() ,
but it is asynchronous.  It returns the message id of the request it
initiated.  The result of this operation can be obtained by calling
.BR ldap_result (3).
.SH DEPRECATED INTERFACES
The
.BR ldap_add ()
and
.BR ldap_add_s ()
routines are deprecated in favor of the
.BR ldap_add_ext ()
and
.BR ldap_add_ext_s ()
routines, respectively.
.LP
.so Deprecated
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3),
.BR ldap_modify (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
