.TH LDAP_PARSE_VLV_CONTROL 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_parse_vlv_control \- Decode the information returned from a search operation that used a VLV (virtual list view) control
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_parse_vlv_control( ld, ctrlp, target_posp, list_countp, contextp, errcodep )
.ft
LDAP *ld;
LDAPControl **ctrlp;
unsigned long *target_posp, *list_countp;
struct berval **contextp;
int *errcodep;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_parse_vlv_control
is used to decode the information returned from a search operation that used a
VLV (virtual list view)control. It takes a null terminated array of LDAPControl
structures, usually obtained by a call to the 
.BR ldap_parse_result function,
a \fItarget_pos\fP which points to the list index of the target entry. If
this parameter is NULL, the target position is not returned. The index returned 
is an approximation of the position of the target entry. It is
not guaranteed to be exact. The parameter \fIlist_countp\fP points to 
the server's estimate of the size of the list. If this parameter is NULL, the
size is not returned. \fIcontextp\fP is a pointer to the address of a berval
structure that contains a server-generated context identifier if server returns
one. If server does not return a context identifier, the server returns a NULL
in this parameter. If this parameter is set to NULL, the context identifier is
not returned. You should use this returned context in the next call to
create a VLV control. When the berval structure is no longer needed, you should
free the memory by calling the \fIber_bvfree function.e\fP
\fIerrcodep\fP is an output parameter, which points to the result code returned
by the server. If this parameter is NULL, the result code is not returned.
.LP 
See
ldap.h for a list of possible return codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap_search (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
