.TH LDAP_PARSE_REFERENCE 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_parse_reference \- Extract referrals and controls from a reference message
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_parse_reference( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *reference,
	char ***referralsp, LDAPControl ***serverctrlsp,
	int freeit )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B ldap_parse_reference()
routine is used to extract referrals and controls from a reference message.
The \fIreference\fP parameter is a reference message as returned by a
call to
.BR ldap_first_reference (3) ,
.BR ldap_next_reference (3) ,
.BR ldap_first_message (3) ,
.BR ldap_next_message (3) ,
or
.BR ldap_result (3) .
.LP
The \fIreferralsp\fP parameter will be filled in with an allocated array of
character strings. The strings are copies of the referrals contained in
the parsed message. The array should be freed by calling
.BR ldap_value_free (3) .
If \fIreferralsp\fP is NULL, no referrals are returned.
If no referrals were returned, \fI*referralsp\fP is set to NULL.
.LP
The \fIserverctrlsp\fP parameter will be filled in with an allocated array of
controls copied from the parsed message. The array should be freed by calling
.BR ldap_controls_free (3).
If \fIserverctrlsp\fP is NULL, no controls are returned.
If no controls were returned, \fI*serverctrlsp\fP is set to NULL.
.LP
The \fIfreeit\fP parameter determines whether the parsed message is
freed or not after the extraction. Any non-zero value will make it
free the message. The
.BR ldap_msgfree (3)
routine can also be used to free the message later.
.SH ERRORS
Upon success LDAP_SUCCESS is returned. Otherwise the values of the
\fIreferralsp\fP and \fIserverctrlsp\fP parameters are undefined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_first_reference (3),
.BR ldap_first_message (3),
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_get_values (3),
.BR ldap_controls_free (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
