.TH LDAP_PARSE_RESULT 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_parse_result \- Parsing results
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_parse_result( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *result,
	int *errcodep, char **matcheddnp, char **errmsgp,
	char ***referralsp, LDAPControl ***serverctrlsp,
	int freeit )
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_parse_sasl_bind_result( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *result,
	struct berval **servercredp, int freeit )
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_parse_extended_result( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *result,
	char **retoidp, struct berval **retdatap, int freeit )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are used to extract information from a result message.
They will operate on the first result message in a chain of search
results (skipping past other message types). They take the \fIresult\fP
as returned by a call to
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_search_s (3)
or
.BR ldap_search_st (3).
In addition to
.BR ldap_parse_result() ,
the routines
.B ldap_parse_sasl_bind_result()
and
.B ldap_parse_extended_result()
are used to get all the result information from SASL bind and extended
operations.
.LP
The \fIerrcodep\fP parameter will be filled in with the result code from
the result message.
.LP
The server might supply a matched DN string in the message indicating
how much of a name in a request was recognized. The \fImatcheddnp\fP
parameter will be filled in with this string if supplied, else it will
be NULL. If a string is returned, it should be freed using
.BR ldap_memfree (3).
.LP
The \fIerrmsgp\fP parameter will be filled in with the error message
field from the parsed message. This string should be freed using
.BR ldap_memfree (3).
.LP
The \fIreferralsp\fP parameter will be filled in with an allocated array of
referral strings from the parsed message. This array should be freed using
.BR ldap_memvfree (3).
If no referrals were returned, \fI*referralsp\fP is set to NULL.
.LP
The \fIserverctrlsp\fP parameter will be filled in with an allocated array of
controls copied from the parsed message. The array should be freed using
.BR ldap_controls_free (3).
If no controls were returned, \fI*serverctrlsp\fP is set to NULL.
.LP
The \fIfreeit\fP parameter determines whether the parsed message is
freed or not after the extraction. Any non-zero value will make it
free the message. The
.BR ldap_msgfree (3)
routine can also be used to free the message later.
.LP
For SASL bind results, the \fIservercredp\fP parameter will be filled in
with an allocated berval structure containing the credentials from the
server if present. The structure should be freed using
.BR ber_bvfree (3).
.LP
For extended results, the \fIretoidp\fP parameter will be filled in
with the dotted-OID text representation of the name of the extended
operation response. The string should be freed using
.BR ldap_memfree (3).
If no OID was returned, \fI*retoidp\fP is set to NULL.
.LP
For extended results, the \fIretdatap\fP parameter will be filled in
with a pointer to a berval structure containing the data from the
extended operation response. The structure should be freed using
.BR ber_bvfree (3).
If no data were returned, \fI*retdatap\fP is set to NULL.
.LP
For all the above result parameters, NULL values can be used in calls
in order to ignore certain fields.
.SH ERRORS
Upon success LDAP_SUCCESS is returned. Otherwise the values of the
result parameters are undefined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_search (3),
.BR ldap_memfree (3),
.BR ldap_memvfree (3),
.BR ldap_get_values (3),
.BR ldap_controls_free (3),
.BR lber-types (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
