.TH LDAP_RESULT 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_result \- Wait for the result of an LDAP operation
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_result( LDAP *ld, int msgid, int all,
	struct timeval *timeout, LDAPMessage **result );

int ldap_msgfree( LDAPMessage *msg );

int ldap_msgtype( LDAPMessage *msg );

int ldap_msgid( LDAPMessage *msg );
.ft
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_result()
routine is used to wait for and return the result of
an operation previously initiated by one of the LDAP asynchronous
operation routines (e.g.,
.BR ldap_search_ext (3),
.BR ldap_modify_ext (3),
etc.).  Those routines all return \-1 in case of error, and an
invocation identifier upon successful initiation of the operation. The
invocation identifier is picked by the library and is guaranteed to be
unique across the LDAP session.  It can be used to request the result
of a specific operation from
.B ldap_result()
through the \fImsgid\fP parameter.
.LP
The
.B ldap_result()
routine will block or not, depending upon the setting
of the \fItimeout\fP parameter.
If timeout is not a NULL pointer,  it  specifies  a  maximum
interval  to wait for the selection to complete.  If timeout
is a NULL  pointer, the LDAP_OPT_TIMEOUT value set by
.BR ldap_set_option (3)
is used. With the default setting,
the  select  blocks  indefinitely.   To
effect  a  poll,  the  timeout argument should be a non-NULL
pointer, pointing to a zero-valued timeval structure.
To obtain the behavior of the default setting, bypassing any value set by 
.BR ldap_set_option (3),
set to -1 the \fItv_sec\fP field of the \fItimeout\fP parameter.
See
.BR select (2)
for further details.
.LP
If the result of a specific operation is required, \fImsgid\fP should
be set to the invocation identifier returned when the operation was
initiated, otherwise LDAP_RES_ANY or LDAP_RES_UNSOLICITED should be
supplied to wait for any or unsolicited response.
.LP
The \fIall\fP parameter, if non-zero, causes
.B ldap_result()
to return all responses with msgid, otherwise only the
next response is returned.  This is commonly used to obtain all
the responses of a search operation.
.LP
A search response is made up of zero or
more search entries, zero or more search references, and zero or
more extended partial responses followed by a search result.  If
\fIall\fP is set to 0, search entries will be returned one at a
time as they come in, via separate calls to
.BR ldap_result() .
If it's set to 1, the search
response will only be returned in its entirety, i.e., after all entries,
all references, all extended partial responses, and the final search
result have been received.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon success, the type of the result received is returned and the
\fIresult\fP parameter will contain the result of the operation;
otherwise, the \fIresult\fP parameter is undefined.  This
result should be passed to the LDAP parsing routines,
.BR ldap_first_message (3)
and friends, for interpretation.
.LP
The possible result types returned are:
.LP
.nf
	LDAP_RES_BIND (0x61)
	LDAP_RES_SEARCH_ENTRY (0x64)
	LDAP_RES_SEARCH_REFERENCE (0x73)
	LDAP_RES_SEARCH_RESULT (0x65)
	LDAP_RES_MODIFY (0x67)
	LDAP_RES_ADD (0x69)
	LDAP_RES_DELETE (0x6b)
	LDAP_RES_MODDN (0x6d)
	LDAP_RES_COMPARE (0x6f)
	LDAP_RES_EXTENDED (0x78)
	LDAP_RES_INTERMEDIATE (0x79)
.fi
.LP
The
.B ldap_msgfree()
routine is used to free the memory allocated for
result(s) by
.B ldap_result()
or
.BR ldap_search_ext_s (3)
and friends.
It takes a pointer to the result or result chain to be freed and returns
the type of the last message in the chain.
If the parameter is NULL, the function does nothing and returns zero.
.LP
The
.B ldap_msgtype()
routine returns the type of a message.
.LP
The
.B ldap_msgid()
routine returns the message id of a message.
.SH ERRORS
.B ldap_result()
returns \-1 if something bad happens, and zero if the
timeout specified was exceeded.
.B ldap_msgtype()
and
.B ldap_msgid()
return \-1 on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_first_message (3),
.BR select (2)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
