.TH LDAP_RENAME 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_rename, ldap_rename_s \- Renames the specified entry.
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_rename( ld, dn, newrdn, newparent, deleteoldrdn, sctrls[], cctrls[], msgidp );
.ft
LDAP *ld;
const char *dn, *newrdn, *newparent;
int deleteoldrdn;
LDAPControl *sctrls[], *cctrls[];
int *msgidp);
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_rename_s( ld, dn, newrdn, newparent, deleteoldrdn, sctrls[], cctrls[] );
.ft
LDAP *ld;
const char *dn, *newrdn, *newparent;
int deleteoldrdn;
LDAPControl *sctrls[], *cctrls[];
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are used to perform a LDAP rename operation.
The function changes the leaf component of an entry's distinguished
name and  optionally moves the entry to a new parent container. The 
.B ldap_rename_s
performs a rename operation synchronously.
The method takes \fIdn\fP, which points to the distinguished name of
the entry whose attribute is being compared, \fInewparent\fP,the distinguished
name of the entry's new parent. If this parameter is NULL, only the RDN is changed.
The root DN is specified by passing a zero length string, "". 
\fIdeleteoldrdn\fP specifies whether the old RDN should be retained or deleted.
Zero indicates that the old RDN should be retained. If you choose this option,
the attribute will contain both names (the old and the new).
Non-zero indicates that the old RDN should be deleted.
\fIserverctrls\fP points to an array of LDAPControl structures that list the
client controls to use with this extended operation. Use NULL to specify
no client controls. \fIclientctrls\fP points to an array of LDAPControl 
structures that list the client controls to use with the search.
.LP
.B ldap_rename
works just like
.B ldap_rename_s,
but the operation is asynchronous. It returns the message id of the request
it initiated. The result of this operation can be obtained by calling
.BR ldap_result(3).
.SH ERRORS
.B ldap_rename()
returns \-1 in case of error initiating the request, and
will set the \fIld_errno\fP field in the \fIld\fP parameter to
indicate the error.
.BR ldap_rename_s()
returns the LDAP error code resulting from the rename operation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_modify (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
