.TH LDAP_FIRST_ENTRY 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_first_entry, ldap_next_entry, ldap_count_entries \- LDAP result entry parsing and counting routines
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, \-lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_count_entries( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *result )
.LP
.ft B
LDAPMessage *ldap_first_entry( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *result )
.LP
.ft B
LDAPMessage *ldap_next_entry( LDAP *ld, LDAPMessage *entry )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are used to parse results received from
.BR ldap_result (3)
or the synchronous LDAP search operation routines
.BR ldap_search_s (3)
and
.BR ldap_search_st (3).
.LP
The
.B ldap_first_entry()
routine is used to retrieve the first entry in a chain
of search results.  It takes the \fIresult\fP as returned by a call to
.BR ldap_result (3)
or
.BR ldap_search_s (3)
or
.BR ldap_search_st (3)
and returns a pointer to the first entry in the result.
.LP
This pointer should be supplied on a subsequent call to
.B ldap_next_entry()
to get the next entry, the result of which should be
supplied to the next call to
.BR ldap_next_entry() ,
etc.
.B ldap_next_entry()
will return NULL when there are no more entries.  The entries returned
from these calls are used in calls to the routines described in
.BR ldap_get_dn (3),
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3),
.BR ldap_get_values (3),
etc.
.LP
A count of the number of entries in the search result can be obtained
by calling
.BR ldap_count_entries() .
.SH ERRORS
If an error occurs in
.B ldap_first_entry()
or
.BR ldap_next_entry() ,
NULL is returned and the ld_errno field in the \fIld\fP parameter
is set to indicate the error.  If an error occurs in
.BR ldap_count_entries() ,
-1 is returned, and
.B ld_errno
is set appropriately.  See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for a description of possible error codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_search (3),
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3),
.BR ldap_get_values (3),
.BR ldap_get_dn (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
