.TH SLAPSCHEMA 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapschema \- SLAPD in-database schema checking utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapschema
[\c
.BI \-a filter\fR]
[\c
.BI \-b suffix\fR]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-d debug-level\fR]
[\c
.BI \-f slapd.conf\fR]
[\c
.BI \-F confdir\fR]
[\c
.BR \-g ]
[\c
.BI \-H URI\fR]
[\c
.BI \-l error-file\fR]
[\c
.BI \-n dbnum\fR]
[\c
.BI \-o option\fR[ = value\fR]]
[\c
.BI \-s subtree-dn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapschema
is used to check schema compliance of the contents of a
.BR slapd (8)
database.
It opens the given database determined by the database number or
suffix and checks the compliance of its contents with the corresponding
schema. Errors are written to standard output or the specified file.
Databases configured as
.B subordinate
of this one are also output, unless \fB\-g\fP is specified.
.LP
Administrators may need to modify existing schema items, including
adding new required attributes to objectClasses,
removing existing required or allowed attributes from objectClasses,
entirely removing objectClasses,
or any other change that may result in making perfectly valid entries
no longer compliant with the modified schema.
The execution of the
.B slapschema
tool after modifying the schema can point out
inconsistencies that would otherwise surface only when
inconsistent entries need to be modified.

.LP
The entry records are checked in database order, not superior first
order.  The entry records will be checked considering all
(user and operational) attributes stored in the database.
Dynamically generated attributes (such as subschemaSubentry)
will not be considered.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a \ filter
Only check entries matching the asserted filter.
For example

slapschema \-a \\
    "(!(entryDN:dnSubtreeMatch:=ou=People,dc=example,dc=com))"

will check all but the "ou=People,dc=example,dc=com" subtree
of the "dc=example,dc=com" database.
Deprecated; use \fB-H\fP \fIldap:///???(filter)\fP instead.
.TP
.BI \-b \ suffix 
Use the specified \fIsuffix\fR to determine which database to
check.  The \fB\-b\fP cannot be used in conjunction
with the
.B \-n
option.
.TP
.B \-c
Enable continue (ignore errors) mode.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug-level
Enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR debug-level ;
see
.BR slapd (8)
for details.
.TP
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf
Specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F \ confdir
specify a config directory.
If both
.B \-f
and
.B \-F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, an attempt to read the
default config directory will be made before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored.
.TP
.B \-g
disable subordinate gluing.  Only the specified database will be
processed, and not its glued subordinates (if any).
.TP
.B \-H \ URI
use dn, scope and filter from URI to only handle matching entries.
.TP
.BI \-l \ error-file
Write errors to specified file instead of standard output.
.TP
.BI \-n \ dbnum
Check the \fIdbnum\fR\-th database listed in the
configuration file. The config database
.BR slapd\-config (5),
is always the first database, so use
.B \-n 0

The
.B \-n
cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-b
option.
.TP
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]
Specify an
.I option
with a(n optional)
.IR value .
Possible generic options/values are:
.LP
.nf
              syslog=<subsystems>  (see `\-s' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-level=<level> (see `\-S' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-user=<user>   (see `\-l' in slapd(8))

.fi
.TP
.BI \-s \ subtree-dn
Only check entries in the subtree specified by this DN.
Implies \fB\-b\fP \fIsubtree-dn\fP if no
.B \-b
nor
.B \-n
option is given.
Deprecated; use \fB-H\fP \fIldap:///subtree-dn\fP instead.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode.
.SH LIMITATIONS
For some backend types, your
.BR slapd (8)
should not be running (at least, not in read-write
mode) when you do this to ensure consistency of the database. It is
always safe to run 
.B slapschema
with the
.BR slapd\-bdb (5),
.BR slapd\-hdb (5),
and
.BR slapd\-null (5)
backends.
.SH EXAMPLES
To check the schema compliance of your SLAPD database after modifications
to the schema, and put any error in a file called
.BR errors.ldif ,
give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapschema \-l errors.ldif
.ft
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapd (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
