.TH SLAPADD 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapadd \- Add entries to a SLAPD database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapadd
[\c
.BI \-b \ suffix\fR]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debug-level\fR]
[\c
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf\fR]
[\c
.BI \-F \ confdir\fR]
[\c
.BR \-g ]
[\c
.BI \-j \ lineno\fR]
[\c
.BI \-l \ ldif-file\fR]
[\c
.BI \-n \ dbnum\fR]
[\c
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]]
[\c
.BR \-q ]
[\c
.BR \-s ]
[\c
.BI \-S \ SID\fR]
[\c
.BR \-u ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-w ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapadd
is used to add entries specified in LDAP Directory Interchange Format
(LDIF) to a
.BR slapd (8)
database.
It opens the given database determined by the database number or
suffix and adds entries corresponding to the provided LDIF to
the database.
Databases configured as
.B subordinate
of this one are also updated, unless \fB\-g\fP is specified.
The LDIF input is read from standard input or the specified file.

All files eventually created by
.BR slapadd
will belong to the identity
.BR slapadd
is run as, so make sure you either run
.BR slapadd
with the same identity
.BR slapd (8)
will be run as (see option
.B \-u
in
.BR slapd (8)),
or change file ownership before running
.BR slapd (8).

Note: slapadd will also perform the relevant indexing whilst adding the database if
any are configured. For specfic details, please see 
.BR slapindex (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b \ suffix 
Use the specified \fIsuffix\fR to determine which database to
add entries to.  The \fB\-b\fP cannot be used in conjunction
with the
.B \-n
option.
.TP
.B \-c
enable continue (ignore errors) mode.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug-level
enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR debug-level ;
see
.BR slapd (8)
for details.
.TP
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf
specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F \ confdir
specify a config directory.
If both
.B \-f
and
.B \-F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, an attempt to read the
default config directory will be made before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored. If dry-run mode is also specified,
no conversion will occur.
.TP
.B \-g
disable subordinate gluing.  Only the specified database will be
processed, and not its glued subordinates (if any).
.TP
.BI \-j \ lineno
Jump to the specified line number in the LDIF file before processing
any entries. This allows a load that was aborted due to errors in the
input LDIF to be resumed after the errors are corrected.
.TP
.BI \-l \ ldif-file
Read LDIF from the specified file instead of standard input.
.TP
.BI \-n \ dbnum
Add entries to the \fIdbnum\fR-th database listed in the
configuration file.  The
.B \-n
cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-b
option.
To populate the config database
.BR slapd\-config (5),
use 
.B \-n 0
as it is always the first database. It must physically exist
on the filesystem prior to this, however.
.TP
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]
Specify an
.I option
with a(n optional)
.IR value .
Possible generic options/values are:
.LP
.nf
              syslog=<subsystems>  (see `\-s' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-level=<level> (see `\-S' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-user=<user>   (see `\-l' in slapd(8))

              schema-check={yes|no}
              value-check={yes|no}

.in
The \fIschema\-check\fR option toggles schema checking (default on);
the \fIvalue\-check\fR option toggles value checking (default off).
The latter is incompatible with \fB-q\fR.
.TP
.B \-q
enable quick (fewer integrity checks) mode.  Does fewer consistency checks
on the input data, and no consistency checks when writing the database.
Improves the load time but if any errors or interruptions occur the resulting
database will be unusable.
.TP
.B \-s
disable schema checking.  This option is intended to be used when loading
databases containing special objects, such as fractional objects on a
partial replica.  Loading normal objects which do not conform to
schema may result in unexpected and ill behavior.
.TP
.BI \-S \ SID
Server ID to use in generated entryCSN.  Also used for contextCSN
if \fB\-w\fP is set as well.  Defaults to \fB0\fP.
.TP
.B \-u
enable dry-run (don't write to backend) mode.
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-w
write syncrepl context information.
After all entries are added, the contextCSN
will be updated with the greatest CSN in the database.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Your
.BR slapd (8)
should not be running 
when you do this to ensure consistency of the database.
.LP
.B slapadd 
may not provide naming or schema checks.  It is advisable to
use
.BR ldapadd (1)
when adding new entries into an existing directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
To import the entries specified in file
.B ldif
into your
.BR slapd (8)
database give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapadd \-l ldif
.ft
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapcat (8),
.BR slapindex (8),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR slapd (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
