.TH SLAPACL 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 2004-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapacl \- Check access to a list of attributes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapacl
.BI \-b \ DN
[\c
.BI \-d \ debug-level\fR]
[\c
.BI \-D \ authcDN\ \fR|
.BI \-U \ authcID\fR]
[\c
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf\fR]
[\c
.BI \-F \ confdir\fR]
[\c
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]]
[\c
.BR \-u ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzID\ \fR|
.BI "\-o \ authzDN=" DN\fR]
[\c
.IR attr [\fB/\fI access ][\fB:\fI value ]]\fR\ [...]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B slapacl
is used to check the behavior of 
.BR slapd (8) 
by verifying access to directory data according to the access control list
directives defined in its configuration.
.
It opens the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
configuration file or the 
.BR slapd\-config (5) 
backend, reads in the  
.BR access / olcAccess
directives, and then parses the 
.B attr
list given on the command-line; if none is given, access to the
.B entry
pseudo-attribute is tested.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b \ DN
specify the 
.I DN 
which access is requested to; the corresponding entry is fetched 
from the database, and thus it must exist.
The
.I DN
is also used to determine what rules apply; thus, it must be
in the naming context of a configured database.  See also
.BR \-u .
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug-level
enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR debug-level ;
see
.BR slapd (8)
for details.
.TP
.BI \-D \ authcDN
specify a DN to be used as identity through the test session
when selecting appropriate
.B <by> 
clauses in access lists.
.TP
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf
specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F \ confdir
specify a config directory.
If both
.B \-f
and
.B \-F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, an attempt to read the
default config directory will be made before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored.
.TP
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]
Specify an
.I option
with a(n optional)
.IR value .
Possible generic options/values are:
.LP
.nf
              syslog=<subsystems>  (see `\-s' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-level=<level> (see `\-S' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-user=<user>   (see `\-l' in slapd(8))

.fi
.RS
Possible options/values specific to
.B slapacl
are:
.RE
.nf

              authzDN
              domain
              peername
              sasl_ssf
              sockname
              sockurl
              ssf
              tls_ssf
              transport_ssf

.fi
.RS
See the related fields in
.BR slapd.access (5)
for details.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-u
do not fetch the entry from the database.
In this case, if the entry does not exist, a fake entry with the
.I DN
given with the
.B \-b
option is used, with no attributes.
As a consequence, those rules that depend on the contents 
of the target object will not behave as with the real object.
The
.I DN
given with the
.B \-b
option is still used to select what rules apply; thus, it must be
in the naming context of a configured database.
See also
.BR \-b .
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcID
specify an ID to be mapped to a 
.B DN 
as by means of 
.B authz\-regexp
or
.B authz\-rewrite
rules (see 
.BR slapd.conf (5)
for details); mutually exclusive with
.BR \-D .
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzID
specify an authorization ID to be mapped to a
.B DN
as by means of
.B authz\-regexp
or
.B authz\-rewrite
rules (see
.BR slapd.conf (5)
for details); mutually exclusive with \fB\-o\fP \fBauthzDN=\fIDN\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapacl \-f ETCDIR/slapd.conf \-v \\
            \-U bjorn \-b "o=University of Michigan,c=US" \\
	    "o/read:University of Michigan"

.ft
.fi
tests whether the user
.I bjorn
can access the attribute 
.I o
of the entry
.I o=University of Michigan,c=US
at
.I read
level.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR slaptest (8),
.BR slapauth (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
