.TH SLAPTEST 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 2004-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slaptest \- Check the suitability of the OpenLDAP slapd configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slaptest
[\c
.BI \-d \ debug-level\fR]
[\c
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf\fR]
[\c
.BI \-F \ confdir\fR]
[\c
.BI \-n dbnum\fR]
[\c
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-u ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slaptest
is used to check the conformance of the
.BR slapd (8)
configuration.
It opens the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
configuration file or the 
.BR slapd\-config (5) 
backend, and parses it according to the general and the backend-specific 
rules, checking its sanity.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug-level
enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR debug-level ;
see
.BR slapd (8)
for details.
.TP
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf
specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F \ confdir
specify a config directory.
If both
.B \-f
and
.B \-F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, slaptest will attempt to read the
default config directory before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored. If dry-run mode is also specified,
no conversion will occur.
.TP
.BI \-n \ dbnum
Just open and test the \fIdbnum\fR-th database listed in the
configuration file. 
To only test the config database
.BR slapd\-config (5),
use 
.B \-n 0
as it is always the first database.
.TP
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]
Specify an
.I option
with a(n optional)
.IR value .
Possible generic options/values are:
.LP
.nf
              syslog=<subsystems>  (see `\-s' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-level=<level> (see `\-S' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-user=<user>   (see `\-l' in slapd(8))

.fi
.TP
.BI \-Q
Be extremely quiet: only the exit code indicates success (0) or not 
(any other value).
.TP
.B \-u
enable dry-run mode (i.e. don't fail if databases cannot be opened,
but config is fine).
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
To check a 
.BR slapd.conf (5)
give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slaptest \-f /ETCDIR/slapd.conf \-v
.ft
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR slapdn (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
