.TH SLAPCAT 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapcat \- SLAPD database to LDIF utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapcat
[\c
.BI \-a filter\fR]
[\c
.BI \-b suffix\fR]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-d debug-level\fR]
[\c
.BI \-f slapd.conf\fR]
[\c
.BI \-F confdir\fR]
[\c
.BR \-g ]
[\c
.BI \-H URI\fR]
[\c
.BI \-l ldif-file\fR]
[\c
.BI \-n dbnum\fR]
[\c
.BI \-o option\fR[ = value\fR]]
[\c
.BI \-s subtree-dn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapcat
is used to generate an LDAP Directory Interchange Format
(LDIF) output based upon the contents of a
.BR slapd (8)
database.
It opens the given database determined by the database number or
suffix and writes the corresponding LDIF to standard output or
the specified file.
Databases configured as
.B subordinate
of this one are also output, unless \fB\-g\fP is specified.
.LP
The entry records are presented in database order, not superior first
order.  The entry records will include all (user and operational)
attributes stored in the database.  The entry records will not include
dynamically generated attributes (such as subschemaSubentry).
.LP
The output of slapcat is intended to be used as input to
.BR slapadd (8).
The output of slapcat cannot generally be used as input to
.BR ldapadd (1)
or other LDAP clients without first editing the output.
This editing would normally include reordering the records
into superior first order and removing no-user-modification
operational attributes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a \ filter
Only dump entries matching the asserted filter.
For example

slapcat \-a \\
    "(!(entryDN:dnSubtreeMatch:=ou=People,dc=example,dc=com))"

will dump all but the "ou=People,dc=example,dc=com" subtree
of the "dc=example,dc=com" database.
Deprecated; use \fB-H\fP \fIldap:///???(filter)\fP instead.
.TP
.BI \-b \ suffix 
Use the specified \fIsuffix\fR to determine which database to
generate output for.  The \fB\-b\fP cannot be used in conjunction
with the
.B \-n
option.
.TP
.B \-c
Enable continue (ignore errors) mode.
Multiple occorrences of
.B \-c
make
.BR slapcat (8)
try harder.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug-level
Enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR debug-level ;
see
.BR slapd (8)
for details.
.TP
.BI \-f \ slapd.conf
Specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F \ confdir
specify a config directory.
If both
.B \-f
and
.B \-F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, an attempt to read the
default config directory will be made before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored.
.TP
.B \-g
disable subordinate gluing.  Only the specified database will be
processed, and not its glued subordinates (if any).
.TP
.B \-H \ URI
use dn, scope and filter from URI to only handle matching entries.
.TP
.BI \-l \ ldif-file
Write LDIF to specified file instead of standard output.
.TP
.BI \-n \ dbnum
Generate output for the \fIdbnum\fR-th database listed in the
configuration file. The config database
.BR slapd\-config (5),
is always the first database, so use
.B \-n 0
to select it.

The
.B \-n
cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-b
option.
.TP
.BI \-o \ option\fR[ = value\fR]
Specify an
.I option
with a(n optional)
.IR value .
Possible generic options/values are:
.LP
.nf
              syslog=<subsystems>  (see `\-s' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-level=<level> (see `\-S' in slapd(8))
              syslog\-user=<user>   (see `\-l' in slapd(8))

              ldif-wrap={no|<n>}

.in
\fIn\fP is the number of columns allowed for the LDIF output
(\fIn\fP equal to \fI0\fP uses the default, corresponding to 76).
Use \fIno\fP for no wrap.
.TP
.BI \-s \ subtree-dn
Only dump entries in the subtree specified by this DN.
Implies \fB\-b\fP \fIsubtree-dn\fP if no
.B \-b
or
.B \-n
option is given.
Deprecated; use \fB-H\fP \fIldap:///subtree-dn\fP instead.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode.
.SH LIMITATIONS
For some backend types, your
.BR slapd (8)
should not be running (at least, not in read-write
mode) when you do this to ensure consistency of the database. It is
always safe to run 
.B slapcat
with the
.BR slapd\-bdb (5),
.BR slapd\-hdb (5),
and
.BR slapd\-null (5)
backends.
.SH EXAMPLES
To make a text backup of your SLAPD database and put it in a file called
.BR ldif ,
give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapcat \-l ldif
.ft
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR slapd (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
