.TH LDAPMODIFY 1 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapmodify, ldapadd \- LDAP modify entry and LDAP add entry tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapmodify
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-a ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BI \-S \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.LP
.B ldapadd
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BI \-S \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-M [ M ]]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldapmodify
is a shell-accessible interface to the
.BR ldap_add_ext (3),
.BR ldap_modify_ext (3),
.BR ldap_delete_ext (3)
and
.BR ldap_rename (3).
library calls.
.B ldapadd
is implemented as a hard link to the ldapmodify tool.  When invoked as
.B ldapadd
the \fB\-a\fP (add new entry) flag is turned on automatically.
.LP
.B ldapmodify
opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and modifies or adds entries.
The entry information is read from standard input or from \fIfile\fP through
the use of the \fB\-f\fP option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only the version information is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set the LDAP debugging level to \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapmodify
must be compiled with LDAP_DEBUG defined for this option to have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what would be done, but don't actually modify entries.  Useful for
debugging in conjunction with \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Use verbose mode, with many diagnostics written to standard output.
.TP
.B \-a
Add new entries.  The default for
.B ldapmodify
is to modify existing entries.  If invoked as
.BR ldapadd ,
this flag is always set.
.TP
.B \-c
Continuous operation mode.  Errors are reported, but
.B ldapmodify
will continue with modifications.  The default is to exit after
reporting an error.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Read the entry modification information from \fIfile\fP instead of from
standard input.
.TP
.BI \-S \ file
Add or change records which were skipped due to an error are written to \fIfile\fP 
and the error message returned by the server is added as a comment. Most useful in 
conjunction with \fB\-c\fP.
.TP
.BR \-M [ M ]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use the Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP to bind to the LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, the server is expected to ignore this value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt for simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as the password for simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contents of \fIpasswdfile\fP as the password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referring to the ldap server(s); only the protocol/host/port
fields are allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify an alternate TCP port where the ldap server is listening.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-P \ { 2 \||\| 3 }
Specify the LDAP protocol version to use.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions with \fB\-e\fP and modify extensions with \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking[=<username>]
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sends abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, doesn't wait for SIGINT.
  not really controls)
.fi

Modify extensions:
.nf
  [!]txn[=abort|commit]
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" for no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL security properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactive mode.  Always prompt.  Default is to prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS to canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the ID
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify the realm of authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the realm
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify the requested authorization ID for SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of the following formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify the SASL mechanism to be used for authentication. If it's not
specified, the program will choose the best mechanism the server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transport Layer Security) extended operation. If you use
.B \-ZZ\c
, the command will require the operation to be successful.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
The contents of \fIfile\fP (or standard input if no \fB\-f\fP flag is given on
the command line) must conform to the format defined in
.BR ldif (5)
(LDIF as defined in RFC 2849).
.SH EXAMPLES
Assuming that the file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists and has the contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Modify Me,dc=example,dc=com
    changetype: modify
    replace: mail
    mail: modme@example.com
    \-
    add: title
    title: Grand Poobah
    \-
    add: jpegPhoto
    jpegPhoto:< file:///tmp/modme.jpeg
    \-
    delete: description
    \-
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodify \-f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will replace the contents of the "Modify Me" entry's
.I mail
attribute with the value "modme@example.com", add a
.I title
of "Grand Poobah", and the contents of the file "/tmp/modme.jpeg"
as a
.IR jpegPhoto ,
and completely remove the
.I description
attribute.
.LP
Assuming that the file
.B /tmp/newentry
exists and has the contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Barbara Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
    objectClass: person
    cn: Barbara Jensen
    cn: Babs Jensen
    sn: Jensen
    title: the world's most famous mythical manager
    mail: bjensen@example.com
    uid: bjensen
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapadd \-f /tmp/newentry
.fi
.LP
will add a new entry for Babs Jensen, using the values from the
file
.B /tmp/newentry.
.LP
Assuming that the file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists and has the contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Barbara Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
    changetype: delete
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodify \-f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will remove Babs Jensen's entry.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.  Errors result in a non-zero
exit status and a diagnostic message being written to standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_add_ext (3),
.BR ldap_delete_ext (3),
.BR ldap_modify_ext (3),
.BR ldap_modrdn_ext (3),
.BR ldif (5).
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
