.TH LDAPPASSWD 1 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2014 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldappasswd \- change the password of an LDAP entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldappasswd
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-A ]
[\c
.BI \-a \ oldPasswd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-t \ oldpasswdfile\fR]
[\c
.BR \-S ]
[\c
.BI \-s \ newPasswd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-T \ newpasswdfile\fR]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
[\c
.IR user ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldappasswd
is a tool to set the password of an LDAP user.
.B ldappasswd
uses the LDAPv3 Password Modify (RFC 3062) extended operation.
.LP
.B ldappasswd
sets the password of associated with the user [or an optionally
specified
.IR user ]. 
If the new
password is not specified on the command line and the user
doesn't enable prompting, the server will be asked to generate
a password for the user.
.LP
.B ldappasswd
is neither designed nor intended to be a replacement for
.BR passwd (1)
and should not be installed as such.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only the version information is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set the LDAP debugging level to \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldappasswd
must be compiled with LDAP_DEBUG defined for this option to have any effect.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not set password. (Can be useful when used in conjunction with
\fB\-v\fP or \fB\-d\fP)
.TP
.B \-v
Increase the verbosity of output.  Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BI \-A
Prompt for old password.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-a \ oldPasswd
Set the old password to \fIoldPasswd\fP.
.TP
.BI \-t \ oldPasswdFile
Set the old password to the contents of \fIoldPasswdFile\fP.
.TP
.BI \-S
Prompt for new password.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-s \ newPasswd
Set the new password to \fInewPasswd\fP.
.TP
.BI \-T \ newPasswdFile
Set the new password to the contents of \fInewPasswdFile\fP.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use the Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP to bind to the LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, the server is expected to ignore this value.
.TP
.BI \-W
Prompt for bind password.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as the password to bind with.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contents of \fIpasswdfile\fP as the password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referring to the ldap server(s); only the protocol/host/port
fields are allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify an alternate TCP port where the ldap server is listening.
Deprecated in favor of \fB\-H\fP.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions with \fB\-e\fP and passwd modify extensions with \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  !authzid=<authzid>    ("dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking[=<username>]
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sends abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, doesn't wait for SIGINT.
  not really controls)
.fi

Passwd Modify extensions:
.nf
  (none)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]

Specify general options.

General options:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif-wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" for no wrapping)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL security properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactive mode.  Always prompt.  Default is to prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS to canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the ID
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify the realm of authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the realm
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify the requested authorization ID for SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of the following formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>\fP.
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify the SASL mechanism to be used for authentication. If it's not
specified, the program will choose the best mechanism the server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transport Layer Security) extended operation. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, the command will require the operation to be successful
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap_sasl_bind (3),
.BR ldap_extended_operation (3),
.BR ldap_start_tls_s (3)
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
