.\"  ettercap_plugins -- man page for all the plugins
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\"  $Id: ettercap_plugins.8.in,v 1.35 2004/11/04 10:37:16 alor Exp $
.\"
.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH ETTERCAP-PLUGINS "8" "" "ettercap NG-0.7.3"
.SH NAME
.B ettercap-plugins NG-0.7.3 \- A collection of plugins for ettercap

.SH DESCRIPTION
Ettercap(8) supports loadable modules at runtime. They are called plugins and
they come within the source tarball. They are automatically compiled if your
system supports them or until you specify the --disable-plugins option to the
configure script.
.br
Some of older ettercap plugins (roper, banshee, and so on) have not been ported 
in the new version.
By the way, you can achieve the same results by using new filtering engine.
.br
If you use interactive mode, most plugins need to "Start Sniff" before using them.

.TP
To have a list of plugins installed in your system do that command:
.Sp
.I ettercap -P list

.LP
.LP
The following is a list of available plugins:

.TP 
.B arp_cop
.Sp
It reports suspicious ARP activity by passively monitoring ARP requests/replies.
It can report ARP posioning attempts, or simple IP-conflicts or IP-changes.
If you build the initial host list the plugin will run more accurately.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQP arp_cop // 


.TP 
.B autoadd
.Sp
It will automatically add new victims to the ARP poisoning mitm attack when
they come up. It looks for ARP requests on the lan and when detected it will
add the host to the victims list if it was specified in the TARGET. The host is
added when an arp request is seen form it, since communicating hosts are alive :)


.TP 
.B chk_poison
.Sp
It performs a check to see if the arp poisoning module of ettercap was successful.
It sends spoofed ICMP echo packets to all the victims of the poisoning 
pretending to be each of the other targets. If we can catch an ICMP reply with
our MAC address as destination it means that the poisoning between those
two targets is successful. It checks both ways of each communication.
This plugin makes sense only where poisoning makes sense.
The test fails if you specify only one target in silent mode.
You can't run this plugin from command line because the poisoning process
is not started yet. You have to launch it from the proper menu.


.TP 
.B dns_spoof
.Sp
This plugin intercepts DNS query and reply with a spoofed answer. You can chose
to which address the plugin has to reply by modifying the etter.dns file. The
plugin intercepts A, PTR and MX request. If it was an A request, the name is
searched in the file and the ip address is returned (you can use wildcards in
the name). If if was a PTR request, the ip is searched in the file and the name
is returned (except for those name containing a wildcard). In case of MX
request a special reply is crafted. The host is resolved with a fake host 'mail.host'
and the additional record contains the ip address of 'mail.host'. The first address
or name that matches is returned, so be careful with the order.

.TP 
.B dos_attack
.Sp
This plugin runs a d.o.s. attack against a victim IP address. It first "scans"
the victim to find open ports, then starts to flood these ports with SYN 
packets, using a "phantom" address as source IP. Then it uses fake ARP replies
to intercept packets for the phantom host. When it receives SYN-ACK from the 
victim, it replies with an ACK packet creating an ESTABLISHED connection. 
You have to use a free IP address in your subnet to create the "phantom" host
(you can use find_ip for this purpose). 
You can't run this plugin in unoffensive mode. 
.br
This plugin is based on the original Naptha DoS attack 
(http://razor.bindview.com/publish/advisories/adv_NAPTHA.html)
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQP dos_attack

.TP 
.B dummy
.Sp
Only a template to demonstrate how to write a plugin.


.TP 
.B find_conn
.Sp
Very simple plugin that listens for ARP requests to show you all the targets an host
wants to talk to. It can also help you finding addresses in an unknown LAN.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQzP find_conn 
.Sp
ettercap -TQu -i eth0 -P find_conn 


.TP 
.B find_ettercap
.Sp
Try to identify ettercap packets sent on the LAN. It could be useful to detect
if someone is using ettercap. Do not rely on it 100% since the tests are only
on particular sequence/identification numbers.


.TP 
.B find_ip
.Sp
Find the first unused IP address in the range specified by the user in the target
list. Some other plugins (such as gre_relay) need an unused IP address of the 
LAN to create a "fake" host.   
It can also be useful to obtain an IP address in an unknown LAN where there is 
no dhcp server. You can use find_conn to determine the IP addressing of the LAN,
and then find_ip.
You have to build host list to use this plugin so you can't use it in unoffensive
mode. If you don't have an IP address for your interface, give it a bogus one 
(e.g. if the LAN is 192.168.0.0/24, use 10.0.0.1 to avoid conflicting IP), then 
launch this plugin specifying the subnet range.
You can run it either from the command line or from the proper menu.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQP find_ip // 
.Sp
ettercap -TQP find_ip /192.168.0.1-254/ 


.TP 
.B finger
.Sp
Uses the passive fingerprint capabilities to fingerprint a remote host. It
does a connect() to the remote host to force the kernel to reply
to the SYN with a SYN+ACK packet. The reply will be collected and the
fingerprint is displayed. The connect() obey to the connect_timeout parameter
in etter.conf(5). You can specify a target on command-line or let the plugin ask
the target host to be fingerprinted. You can also specify multiple target with
the usual multi-target specification (see ettercap(8)). if you specify multiple
ports, all the ports will be tested on all the IPs.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TzP finger /192.168.0.1/22
.br
ettercap -TzP finger /192.168.0.1-50/22,23,25


.TP 
.B finger_submit
.Sp
Use this plugin to submit a fingerprint to the ettercap website. If you found
an unknown fingerprint, but you know for sure the operating system of the
target, you can submit it so it will be inserted in the database in the next
ettercap release. We need your help to increase the passive fingerprint
database. Thank you very much.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TzP finger_submit

.TP 
.B gre_relay
.Sp
This plugin can be used to sniff GRE-redirected remote traffic.
The basic idea is to create a GRE tunnel that sends all the traffic on a router
interface to the ettercap machine. The plugin will send back the GRE packets 
to the router, after ettercap "manipulation" (you can use "active" plugins
such as smb_down, ssh decryption, filters, etc... on redirected traffic) 
It needs a "fake" host where the traffic has to be redirected to (to avoid 
kernel's responses). The "fake" IP will be the tunnel endpoint. 
Gre_relay plugin will impersonate the "fake" host. 
To find an unused IP address for the "fake" host you can use find_ip plugin.  
Based on the original Tunnelx technique by Anthony C. Zboralski published
in http://www.phrack.org/show.php?p=56&a=10 by HERT.

.TP 
.B gw_discover
.Sp
This plugin try to discover the gateway of the lan by sending TCP SYN packets
to a remote host. The packet has the destination IP of a remote host and the
destination mac address of a local host. If ettercap receives the SYN+ACK
packet, the host which own the source mac address of the reply is the gatway.
This operation is repeated for each host in the 'host list', so you need to
have a valid host list before launching this plugin.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TP gw_discover /192.168.0.1-50/

.TP 
.B isolate
.Sp
The isolate plugin will isolate an host form the LAN. It will poison the
victim's arp cache with its own mac address associated with all the host it
tries to contact. This way the host will not be able to contact other hosts
because the packet will never reach the wire.
.br
You can specify all the host or only a group. the targets
specification work this way: the target1 is the victim and must be a single
host, the target2 can be a range of addresses and represent the hosts that will
be blocked to the victim.
.Sp
.I examples :
.Sp
ettercap -TzqP isolate /192.168.0.1/ //
.br
ettercap -TP isolate /192.168.0.1/ /192.168.0.2-30/


.TP 
.B link_type
.Sp
It performs a check of the link type (hub or switch) by sending a spoofed ARP
request and listening for replies. It needs at least one entry in the host 
list to perform the check. With two or more hosts the test will be more 
accurate.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQP link_type /192.168.0.1/
.br
ettercap -TQP link_type //

.TP 
.B pptp_chapms1
.Sp
It forces the pptp tunnel to negotiate MS-CHAPv1 authentication instead of
MS-CHAPv2, that is usually easier to crack (for example with LC4).
You have to be in the "middle" of the connection to use it successfully.
It hooks the ppp dissector, so you have to keep them active. 

.TP 
.B pptp_clear
.Sp
Forces no compression/encryption for pptp tunnels during negotiation.
It could fail if client (or the server) is configured to hang off the tunnel 
if no encryption is negotiated.
You have to be in the "middle" of the connection to use it successfully.
It hooks the ppp dissector, so you have to keep them active. 

.TP 
.B pptp_pap
.Sp
It forces the pptp tunnel to negotiate PAP (cleartext) authentication.
It could fail if PAP is not supported, if pap_secret file is missing,
or in case windows is configured with "authomatic use of domain 
account". (It could fail for many other reasons too).
You have to be in the "middle" of the connection to use it successfully.
It hooks the ppp dissector, so you have to keep them active. 

.TP 
.B pptp_reneg
.Sp
Forces re-negotiation on an existing pptp tunnel.
You can force re-negotiation for grabbing passwords already sent. 
Furthermore you can launch it to use pptp_pap, pptp_chapms1 or pptp_clear on
existing tunnels (those plugins work only during negotiation phase).
You have to be in the "middle" of the connection to use it successfully.
It hooks the ppp dissector, so you have to keep them active. 

.TP 
.B rand_flood
.Sp
Floods the LAN with random MAC addresses. Some switches will fail open in 
repeating mode, facilitating sniffing. The delay between each packet is
based on the port_steal_send_delay value in etter.conf.
.br
It is useful only on ethernet switches.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TP rand_flood


.TP 
.B remote_browser
.Sp
It sends to the browser the URLs sniffed thru HTTP sessions. So you
are able to see the webpages in real time. The command executed is configurable
in the etter.conf(5) file. It sends to the browser only the GET requests and
only for webpages, ignoring single request to images or other amenities.
Don't use it to view your own connection :)


.TP 
.B reply_arp
.Sp
Simple arp responder. When it intercepts an arp request for a host 
in the targets' lists, it replies with attacker's MAC address.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQzP reply_arp /192.168.0.1/
.br
ettercap -TQzP reply_arp //

.TP
.B repoison_arp
.Sp
It solicits poisoning packets after broadcast ARP requests (or replies) from a posioned host.
For example: we are poisoning Group1 impersonating Host2. If Host2 makes a broadcast
ARP request for Host3, it is possible that Group1 caches the right MAC address for Host2
contained in the ARP packet. This plugin re-poisons Group1 cache immediately after a
legal broadcast ARP request (or reply).
.br
This plugin is effective only during an arp-posioning session.
.br
In conjuction with reply_arp plugin, repoison_arp is a good support for standard
arp-poisoning mitm method.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -T -M arp:remote -P repoison_arp /192.168.0.10-20/ /192.168.0.1/

.TP 
.B scan_poisoner
.Sp
Check if someone is poisoning between some host in the list and us.
First of all it checks if two hosts in the list have the same mac address.
It could mean that one of those is poisoning us pretending to be the other.
It could generate many false-positives in a proxy-arp environment.
You have to build hosts list to perform this check.
After that, it sends icmp echo packets to each host in the list and checks
if the source mac address of the reply differs from the address we have
stored in the list for that ip.
It could mean that someone is poisoning that host pretending to have our ip
address and forwards intercepted packets to us.
You can't perform this active test in unoffensive mode.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQP scan_poisoner //

.TP 
.B search_promisc
.Sp
It tries to find if anyone is sniffing in promisc mode. It sends two different
kinds of malformed arp request to each target in the host list and waits for
replies. If a reply arrives from the target host, it's more or
less probable that this target has the NIC in promisc mode. It could generate false-positives.
You can launch it either from the command line or from the plugin menu.
Since it listens for arp replies it is better that you don't use it while sending
arp request. 
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TQP search_promisc /192.168.0.1/
.br
ettercap -TQP search_promisc //


.TP 
.B smb_clear
.Sp
It forces the client to send smb password in clear-text by mangling protocol 
negotiation. You have to be in the "middle" of the connection to successfully
use it. It hooks the smb dissector, so you have to keep it active. 
If you use it against a windows client it will probably result in a failure. 
Try it against a *nix smbclient :)
   

.TP 
.B smb_down
.Sp
It forces the client to not to use NTLM2 password exchange during smb 
authentication. This way, obtained hashes can be easily cracked by LC4.
You have to be in the "middle" of the connection to successfully use it.
It hooks the smb dissector, so you have to keep it active. 

.TP 
.B stp_mangler
.Sp
It sends spanning tree BPDUs pretending to be a switch with the highest 
priority. Once in the "root" of the spanning tree, ettercap can receive
all the "unmanaged" network traffic. 
.br
It is useful only against a group of switches running STP.
.br
If there is another switch with the highest priority, try to manually
decrease your MAC address before running it.
.Sp
.I example :
.Sp
ettercap -TP stp_mangler 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I "ettercap(8)"
.I "ettercap_curses(8)"
.I "etterlog(8)"
.I "etterfilter(8)"
.I "etter.conf(5)"
.LP
