.\"  ettercap_curses -- man page for the Ncurses GUI
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\"  $Id: ettercap_curses.8.in,v 1.19 2004/09/23 09:24:00 alor Exp $
.\"
.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH ETTERCAP-CURSES "8" "" "ettercap NG-0.7.3"
.SH NAME
.B ettercap NG-0.7.3 \- Man page for the Ncurses GUI.

.SH GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The curses GUI is quite simple and intuitive.
.br
It is menu-driven. Every flag or function can be modified/called through the
upper menu. All user messages are printed in the bottom window. If you want
to see the old messages, you can scroll the window buffer by pressing the UP,
DOWN, PPAGE, NPAGE keys. 
The middle part is used to display information or dialogs for the user.
.Sp
The menus can be opened by pressing the relative hotkey. For the menus the
hotkey is represented by the uppercase initial letter of the title (e.g. 'S'
for Sniffing, 'T' for Targets). The functions within a menu can be called by
pressing the hotkey depicted near the function name on the right. Hotkeys
prefixed with 'C-' are to be used in conjunction with the CTRL key (e.g. 'C-f'
means CTRL+f).
.Sp
You can switch the focus between the objects on the screen by pressing the TAB
key or by clicking on it with the mouse (if you are running ettercap within an
xterm). Mouse events are supported only through the xterm. You can use the mouse
to select objects, open a menu, choose a function, scroll the elevators for the
scrolling windows, etc etc.
.Sp
When you open multiple windows in the middle part, they will overlap. Use
the TAB key to switch between them. Use CTRL+Q to close the focused window.
.br
You can also use CTRL+Q to close the input dialog if you want to cancel the
requested input. (i.e. you have selected the wrong function and you want to go
back).
.Sp
To have a quick help on the shortcuts you can use against a particular window press
the SPACE key. A help window will be displayed with a list of shortcuts that
can be used. If the window does not appear, no shortcuts are available.


.SH HOW TO SELECT IT
To use the ncurses GUI you have to:
.Sp
- compile ettercap with ncurses support (obviously)
.br
- run it with the -C flag 
.Sp
Passing the -C flag is sufficient, but if you want you can pass other flags
that will be automatically set for the ncurses GUI. You will be able to
override them using the menu to change the options.


.SH ONCE STARTED
As soon as ettercap is launched with the Ncurses GUI, you will be prompted with
multiple choices. The first screen lets you select if you want to open a pcap
file or dump the sniffed traffic to a file, if you want unified sniffing or
bridged one, permits you to set a pcap file on the captured traffic and enables
you to log all the sniffed data.
.Sp
Once you have selected a sniffing method (from file, unified or bridged) this
screen will not be reachable anymore. The only way is to restart ettercap.


Let's analyze each menu in the start screen:

.TP 
.B File
.RS
.TP
.B Open...  
Open a pcap file and analyze it. All the functionalities available for live
sniffing are in place except for those sending or forwarding packets (mitm
attacks and so on...).
.TP
.B Dump to file...
All the traffic sniffed by the live capture will be dumped to that file. The
filters, not the targets, have effects on this file, as all the packets received by
pcap will be dumped. The only way to not dump a certain packet is to set a proper pcap
filter (see below).
.TP
.B Exit
.br
Exits from ettercap and returns to the command prompt.
.RE



.TP 
.B Sniff
.RS
.TP
.B Unified sniffing...  
Choosing this function you will be prompted to select the network interface to be 
used for sniffing. The first up and running interface is suggested in the input
box.
For an explanation of what unified sniffing is, refer to ettercap(8).
.br
TIP: if you use the 'u' hotkey, this step will be skipped and the default
interface is automatically selected.
.TP
.B Bridged sniffing...  
After selecting the two interfaces to be used, you will enter the Bridged sniffing
mode. For an explanation of what bridged sniffing is, refer to ettercap(8).
.TP
.B Set pcap filter...
Here you can insert a tcpdump-like filter for the capturing process.
.br
IMPORTANT: if you manage to use a mitm attack, remember that if ettercap does
not see a packet, it will NOT be forwarded. So be sure of what you are doing by
setting a pcap filter.
.RE


.TP 
.B Options
.RS
.TP
.B Unoffensive  
This enable/disable the unoffensive flag. The asterisk '*' means "the option is
enabled". Otherwise the option is not enabled.
.TP
.B Promisc mode
Enable/disable the promisc mode for the live capture on a network interface.
This is an "asterisk-option" as the unoffensive one.
.TP
.B Set netmask
Use the specified netmask instead of the one associated with the current iface. This
option is useful if you have the NIC with an associated netmask of class B and
you want to scan (with the arp scan) only a C class.
.RE



.SH THE INTERESTING PART
Once you have selected an offline sniffing or a live capture, the upper menu is
modified and you can start to do the interesting things...
.br
Some of the following menu are only available in live capture. 


.TP 
.B Start
.RS
.TP
.B Start sniffing
Starts the sniffing process depending on what you have selected on startup
(live or from file)
.TP
.B Stop sniffing
Stops the sniffing thread.
.TP
.B Exit
.br
Returns to your favourite shell ;)
.RE



.TP 
.B Targets
.RS
.TP
.B Current Targets
Displays a list of hosts in each TARGET. You can selectively remove a host by
selecting it and press 'd' or add a new host pressing 'a'. To switch between the
two lists, use the ARROWS keys.
.TP
.B Select TARGET(s)
Lets you select the TARGET(s) as explained in ettercap(8). The syntax is the
same as for the command line specification.
.TP
.B Protocol...
You can choose to sniff only TCP, only UDP or both (ALL).
.TP
.B Reverse matching
Reverse the matching of a packet. It is equivalent to a NOT before the target
specification.
.TP
.B Wipe Targets
Restores both TARGETS to ANY/ANY/ANY
.RE


.TP 
.B Hosts
.RS
.TP
.B Hosts list
Displays the list of hosts detected through an ARP scan or converted from the
passive profiles. This list is used by MITM attacks when the ANY target is
selected, so if you want to exclude a host from the attack, simply delete it
from the list.
.br
You can remove a host from the list by pressing 'd', add it to TARGET1 by
pressing '1' or add it to TARGET2 by pressing '2'.
.TP
.B Scan for hosts
Perform the ARP scan of the netmask if no TARGETS are selected. If TARGETS was
specified it only scans for those hosts.
.TP
.B Load from file...
Loads the hosts list from a file previously saved with "save to file" or hand
crafted.
.TP
.B Save to file...
Save the current hosts list to a file.
.RE


.TP 
.B View
.RS
.TP
.B Connections
Displays the connection list. To see detailed information about a connection
press 'd', or press 'k' to kill it. To see the traffic for a specific connection,
select it and press enter. Once the two-panel interface is displayed you can
move the focus with the arrow keys. Press 'j' to switch between joined and
splitted visualization. Press 'k' to kill the connection. Press 'y' to inject
interactively and 'Y' to inject a file. Note that it is important which panel
has the focus as the injected data will be sent to that address.
.br
HINT: connections marked with an asterisk contain account(s) information.
.TP
.B Profiles
Diplays the passive profile hosts list. Selecting a host will display the
relative details (including account with user and pass for that host).
.br
You can convert the passive profile list into the hosts list by pressing 'c'. 
To purge remote hosts, press 'l'. To purge local hosts, press 'r'. You can also
dump the current profile to a file by pressing 'd'; the dumped file can be
opened with etterlog(8).
.br
HINT: profiles marked with an asterisk contain account(s) information.
.TP
.B Statistics
Displays some statistics about the sniffing process.
.TP
.B Resolve IP addresses
Enables DNS resolution for all the sniffed IP address. CAUTION: this will
extremely slow down ettercap. By the way the passive dns resolution is always
active. It sniffs dns replies and stores them in a cache. If an ip address is
present in that cache, it will be automatically resolved. It is dns resolution
for free... ;)
.TP
.B Visualization method
Change the visualization method for the sniffed data. Available methods: ascii,
hex, ebcdic, text, html. 
.TP
.B Visualization regex
Set the visualization regular expression. Only packets matching this regex will
be displayed in the connection data window.
.TP
.B Set the WEP key
Set the WEP key used to decrypt WiFi encrypted packets. See ettercap(8) for the
format of the key.
.RE


.TP 
.B Mitm
.RS
.TP
.B [...]
For each type of attack, a menu entry is displayed. Simply select the attack you
want and fill the arguments when asked. You can activate more than one attack at a
time.
.TP
.B Stop mitm attack(s)
Stops all the mitm attacks currently active.
.RE


.TP 
.B Filters
.RS
.TP
.B Load a filter...
Load a precompiled filter file. The file must be compiled with etterfilter(8)
before it can be loaded.
.TP
.B Stop filtering
Unload the filter and stop filtering the connections.
.RE


.TP 
.B Logging
.RS
.TP
.B Log all packets and infos...
Given a file name, it will create two files: filename.eci (for information
about hosts) and filename.ecp (for all the interesting packets). This is the
same as the -L option.
.TP
.B Log only infos...
This is used only to sniff information about hosts (same as the -l option).
.TP
.B Stop logging info
Come on... it is self explanatory.
.TP
.B Log user messages...
Will log all the messages appearing in the bottom window (same as -m option).
.TP
.B Compressed file
Asterisk-option to control whether or not the logfile should be compressed.
.RE


.TP 
.B Plugins
.RS
.TP
.B Manage the plugins
Opens the plugin management window. You can select a plugin and activate it by
pressing 'enter'. Plugins already active can be recognized by the [1] symbol
instead of [0]. If you select an active plugin, it will be deactivated.
.TP
.B Load a plugin...
You can load a plugin file that is not in the default search path. (remember
that you can browse directories with EC_UID permissions).
.RE



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I "ettercap(8)"
.I "ettercap_plugins(8)"
.I "etterlog(8)"
.I "etterfilter(8)"
.I "etter.conf(5)"
.LP
