.\" 
.\"  Man page for the ncopy program
.\"
.TH NCOPY 1 17/03/1996 ncopy ncopy
.SH NAME
ncopy \- NetWare file copy

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBncopy -V\fP

\fBncopy\fP [ \fB-vmMnpptu\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP \fIamount\fP ] \fBfile\fP
.BR destinationfile | directory

\fBncopy\fP [ \fB-vmMnpptu\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP \fIamount\fP ] \fBfile1\fP
.RB "[ " "file2 ..." " ] " directory

\fBncopy\fP \fB-r\fP [ \fB-vmMnpptu\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP \fIamount\fP ] \fBsrcdir\fP
.B dstdir

.SH DESCRIPTION
With \fBncopy\fP you can copy files to different locations on a single 
NetWare file server without generating excess network traffic.  The 
program uses a NetWare function to do the copy rather than transferring 
the file across the network for both the read and write.

If the last argument is a directory, \fBncopy\fP will copy the source 
file(s) into the directory.  If only two files are given and the last 
argument is not a directory, it will copy the source file to the destination 
file.

If the source and destination files are not on the same NetWare server 
(or are not on NetWare servers at all), \fBncopy\fP will do a normal file 
copy.
.SH OPTIONS
.B -V
.RS 3
Show version number and exit
.RE

.B -v
.RS 3
Verbose copy.  Will show current file and percentage completion.
.RE

.B -m
.RS 3
Copy MAC resource fork. Copies MAC resource fork together with
data fork.
.RE

.B -M
.RS 3
Copy MAC resource fork to/from non-MAC filesystem. It expects/creates 
resource forks in subdirectory \fI.rsrc\fP of each directory copied.

If you want to copy files from MAC volume to \fI.rsrc\fP scheme, you
must specify both options, \fB-mM\fP. It is not possible to 
create \fI.rsrc\fP directory on MAC-aware volume in one step, you must 
first copy data to non-MAC media using \fBncopy -mM\fP and then copy them
back using \fBncopy -M\fP.

If you want to copy files from \fI.rsrc\fP scheme on MAC volume to
real MAC multiple-forks file, you must first copy data to non-MAC
filesystem using \fBncopy -M\fP and then copy them back using 
\fBncopy -mM\fP.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
Nice NetWare copy.  Will sleep for a second between copying blocks on
the NetWare server.  Gives other people a chance to do some work on 
the NetWare server when you are copying large files.  This has no
effect if you are not copying on a NetWare server.
.RE

\fB-s\fP \fIamount\fP
.RS 3
Nice time slice factor.  Used in conjunction with the 
.B -n
option, this specifies the number of 100K blocks to copy before sleeping.
Default is 10. (1 Megabyte)
.RE

.B -p
.RS 3
Preserve file attributes and date/time during copy.
.RE

.B -pp
.RS 3
Preserve file attributes, date/time and owner during copy. Name of owner
is preserved, not owner ID.
.RE

.B -t
.RS 3
Preserve trustees during copy. Trustee name is preserved, not ID.
.RE

.B -r
.RS 3
Perform recursive copy.
.RE

.B -u
.RS 3
Perform copy only if mtime or size differs.
.RE

.SH BUGS
\fBncopy\fP does not preserve long (MAC, NFS, FTAM, OS2) names during copy.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8)

.SH CREDITS
ncopy was written by Brian G. Reid (breid@tim.com) and Tom
C. Henderson (thenderson@tim.com).  Many thanks to Volker Lendecke
(lendecke@math.uni-goettingen.de) for the ncpfs and ncplib which made
ncopy possible. Some further work was done by Petr Vandrovec
(vandrove@vc.cvut.cz).
