.TH NCPMOUNT 8 12/04/1998 ncpmount ncpmount
.SH NAME
ncpmount, mount.ncp, mount.ncpfs \- mount volume(s) from a specified NetWare fileserver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ncpmount
[ \fB-h\fP ] [ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ] [ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ]
[ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ] [ \fB-C\fP ] 
[ \fB-c\fP \fIclient name\fP ] [ \fB-u\fP \fIuid\fP ] [ \fB-g\fP \fIgid\fP ] 
[ \fB-f\fP \fIfile mode\fP ] [ \fB-d\fP \fIdir mode\fP ]
[ \fB-V\fP \fIvolume\fP ] [ \fB-t\fP \fItime_out\fP ]
[ \fB-r\fP \fIretry_count\fP ] [ \fB-b\fP ] [ \fB-i\fP \fIlevel\fP ]
[ \fB-v\fP ] [ \fB-m\fP ] [ \fB-y\fP \fIiocharset\fP ]
[ \fB-p\fP \fIcodepage\fP ] [ \fB-N\fP \fIignored namespace\fP ]
[ \fB-2\fP | \fB-3\fP | \fB-4\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP ] [ \fB-A\fP \fIdns name\fP ]
mount-point

.B mount.ncp
remote-server-and-user
mount-point
[ \fB-n\fP ] [ \fB-v\fP ] [ \fB-o\fP \fImount_options\fP ]


.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is used to mount volumes of the specified NetWare Fileserver
under the specified mount point.

.B ncpfs
is a linux filesystem which understands the NCP protocol. This is the
protocol Novell NetWare clients use to talk to NetWare servers. ncpfs
was inspired by \fBlwared\fP, a free NetWare emulator for Linux written
by Ales Dryak. See ftp://klokan.sh.cvut.cz/pub/linux for this very 
interesting program.

\fBncpmount\fP, when invoked with all appropriate arguments, attaches and
logs into specified server and mounts all volumes (or one volume or subtree)
from server under the specified mount point.
.B ncpmount
when invoked without any arguments specifying the fileserver, user id and
password checks the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password to use for the
specified mount point. See nwclient(5) for more information. Please note
that the access permissions of .nwclient MUST be 600, for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS
.B mount-point
.RS 3
.B mount-point
is the directory you want to mount the filesystem over. Its function is the
the same as for a normal mount command.

If the real uid of the caller is not root,
.B ncpmount
checks whether the user is allowed to mount a filesystem on the
mount-point. So it should be safe to make 
.B ncpmount
setuid root. The filesystem stores the uid of the user who called
ncpmount. So
.B ncpumount
can check whether the caller is allowed to unmount the filesystem.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
(mount option \fBserver=\fP or part before
.B /
in \fIremote-server-and-user\fP)
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -C
(mount option \fBnoupcasepasswd\fP)
.RS 3
By default passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server because most servers require this. This option disables this
feature ensuring that passwords are sent without any case conversion.
.RE

.B -n
(mount option \fBnopasswd\fP)
.RS 3
.B -n
must be specified for logins that do not have a password configured.
This option means do not update /etc/mtab if there is option
.B -o
on command line. You must use
.B -o nopasswd
in this case.
.RE

.B passwdfile=file
(only mount option)
.RS 3
If you want specify password and you do not want store it into world readable
/etc/fstab, you can use this option.
.I file
then contains lines in form SERVER/USER:PASSWORD:other_data (other_data are
currently unused)
.RE

.B pass-fd=fd
(only mount option)
.RS 3
If you want to pass password in secure way to ncpmount, you can pass it through
specified \fIfd\fP.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
(mount option \fBpasswd=\fP)
.RS 3
specifies the password to use for the Netware user id.

If neither
.B -n
nor the
.B -P
nor the
.B passwdfile=
nor the
.B pass-fd=
arguments are specified ncpmount will prompt for a password. This
makes it difficult to use in scripts such as /etc/rc. If you want to
have ncpmount work automatically from a script you must include the
appropriate option and be very careful to ensure that appopriate file
permissions are set for the script that includes your password to
ensure that others can not read it.
.RE

.B -U
.I user name
(mount option \fBuser=\fP or rest of \fIremote-server-and-user\fP after 
\fB/\fP)
.RS 3
Specifies the Netware user id to use when logging in to the fileserver. If
this option is not specified then ncpmount will attempt to login to the
fileserver using the Linux login id of the user invoking ncpmount.
.RE

.B -m
(mount option \fBmultiple\fP)
.RS 3
Normally,
.B ncpmount
limits number of connections from client to server to one per unique user
name. If you want mount more than one connection with same username and
server, you must specify \fB-m\fP.
.RE

.B -u
.I uid,
.B -g
.I gid
(mount option \fBuid=\fP and \fBgid=\fP)
.RS 3
ncpmount does not yet implement a scheme for mapping NetWare users/groups
to Linux users/groups. Linux requires that each file has an owner and group id.
With
.B -u
and
.B -g
you can tell ncpmount which id's it should assign to the files in the
mounted directory.

The defaults for these values are the current uid and gid.
.RE

.B -c
.I user name
(mount option \fBowner=\fP)
.RS 3
.B -c
names the user who is the 
.I owner
of the connection, where owner does not refer to file ownership (that
"owner" is set by the -u argument), but the owner of the mount, ie: who
is allowed to call ncpumount on this mount. The default owner of the
connection and the mount is the user who called ncpmount. This option
allows you to specify that some other user should be set as the owner.

In this this way it is possible to mount a public read-only directory,
but to allow the lp daemon to print on NetWare queues. This is
possible because only users who have write permissions on a directory
may issue ncp requests over a connection. The exception to this rule
is the 'mount owner', who is also granted 'request permission'.
.RE

.B -f
.I file mode,
.B -d
.I dir mode
(mount option \fBmode=\fP (or \fBfilemode=\fP) and \fBdirmode=\fP)
.RS 3
Like 
.B -u
and \fB-g\fP,
these options are used to determine what permissions should be assigned
files and directories of the mounted volumes. The values must be specified
as octal numbers. The default values are taken from the current umask, where
the file mode is the current umask, and the dir mode adds execute permissions
where the file mode gives read permissions.

Note that these permissions can differ from the rights the server
gives to us. If you do not have write permissions on the server, you
can very well choose a file mode that tells that you have. This
certainly cannot override the restrictions imposed by the server.
.RE

.B -V
.I volume
(mount option \fBvolume=\fP)
.RS 3
There are 2 general ways you can mount a NetWare server's disk space:
Either you can mount all volumes under one directory, or you can mount
only a single volume.

When you choose to mount the complete disk space at once, you have the
advantage that only one Linux mount point and only one
NetWare connection is used for all the volumes of this server. Both of
these are limited resources. (Although raising the number of Linux
mount points is significantly cheaper than raising the number of
available NetWare connections ;-))

When you specify to mount a single volume by using the option
.B -V
.I volume,
you have the big advantage that nfsd is able to re-export this mounted
directory. You must invoke 
.B nfsd
and
.B mountd
with the option
.I --re-export
to make nfsd re-export ncpfs mounted directories. This uses one Linux
mount point and one NetWare connection per mounted volume. Maybe
sometime in the future I will make it possible to mount all volumes on
different mount points, using only one connection.
.RE

.B -t
.I time_out
(mount option \fBtimeo=\fP or \fBtimeout=\fP)
.RS 3
With 
.B -t
you can adjust the time ncpfs waits for the server to answer a request
it sent. Use the option to raise the timeout value when your ncpfs
connections seem to be unstable although your servers are well
up. This can happen when you have very busy servers, or servers that
are very far away.

.I time_out
is specified in 1/100s, the current default value is 60.
.RE

.B -r
.I retry_count
(mount option \fBretry=\fP)
.RS 3
As \fB-t\fP, \fB-r\fP can be used to tune the ncpfs connection to the
server. With \fIretry_count\fP you can specify how many times ncpfs 
will attempt to send a packet to the server before it decides the 
connection is dead. The current default value is 5.

Currently ncpfs is not too clever when trying to find out that
connections are dead. If anybody knows how to do that correctly, as it
is done by commercial workstations, please tell me.
.RE

.B -y
.I iocharset
(mount option \fBiocharset=\fP)
.RS 3
You can specify character translation rules for converting names from
unicode to your desktop (it works together with \fB-p\fP).
.I iocharset
is charset name, for example \fIiso-8859-1\fP.
.RE

.B -p
.I codepage
(mount option \fBcodepage=\fP)
.RS 3
You can specify character translation rules for converting names from
Netware encoding to unicode (it works together with \fB-y\fP).
.I codepage
is codepage name, for example \fIcp437\fP.
.RE

\fB-b\fP (mount option \fBbindery\fP)
.RS 3
If you are connecting to NetWare 4 or NetWare 5 through bindery emulation
instead of NDS, you must specify this option.
.RE

.B -i
.I level
(mount option \fBsignature=\fP\fIlevel\fP)
.RS 3
Enables packet signing. \fIlevel\fP is from 0 to 3: 0 means disable, 1 means
sign if server needs it, 2 means sign if server allows it and 3 means sign
packets always.
.RE

.B -v
.RS 3
Print ncpfs version number. It has another meaning (\fIverbose\fP) if you specify
.B -o
on command line. If you are interested in version, type
.B ncpmount -v
without another options.
.RE

\fB-A\fP \fIdns name\fP (mount option \fBipserver=\fP\fIdns name\fP)
.RS 3
When you are mounting volumes from NetWare 5 server over UDP, you must
specify \fIdns name\fP of server here and \fIlogical server name\fP in
\fB-S\fP (or in \fBserver=\fP). This name is used to switch \fBncpmount\fP
into UDP mode and to specify server to connect. Currently, \fBDNS\fP is
only supported \fBIP\fP name resolution protocol. There is currently no
support for \fBSLP\fP.
.RE

\fB-N\fP \fIignored namespace\fP (mount option \fBnonfs\fP and \fBnolong\fP)
.RS 3
\fBncpfs\fP supports \fINFS\fP, \fILONG\fP (\fIOS/2\fP) and \fIDOS\fP namespace
on NetWare volumes. If you do not want to use \fINFS\fP or \fILONG\fP namespace
(because of bugs in (server) code or for backward compatibility), you must
specify these ignored namespaces in mount parameters.
.RE

\fB-2\fP
.RS 3
If you have unusual \fBncpfs\fP code in kernel and \fBncpmount\fP is not
able to autodetect it, use this option. It switches \fBncpmount\fP to 
\fBncpfs\fP interface version 2. This interface was used in 2.0.x kernels,
does not support NCP/UDP, does not have NDS authentication info storage
and uses only 16bit uid/gid.
.RE

\fB-3\fP
.RS 3
If you have unusual \fBncpfs\fP code in kernel and \fBncpmount\fP is not
able to autodetect it, use this option. It switches \fBncpmount\fP to
\fBncpfs\fP interface version 3. This interface was used in kernels from
2.1.30 to 2.3.40 (laters 2.3.x and 2.4.x still supports this interface
to make transition easier). This interface supports NCP/UDP, does have
NDS authentication info storage (if you uncomment it in kernel sources)
and uses 16bit uid/gid.
.RE

\fB-4\fP
.RS 3
If you have unusual \fBncpfs\fP code in kernel and \fBncpmount\fP is not
able to autodetect it, use this option. It switches \fBncpmount\fP to
\fBncpfs\fP interface version 4. This interface is used in kernels after 
2.3.40. This interface supports NCP/UDP, does have NDS authentication info
storage and uses 32bit uid/gid.
.RE

\fB-s\fP (mount option \fBstrong\fP)
.RS 3
Normally, files marked \fIread-only\fP cannot be removed from NetWare volume
because of they are marked \fIDelete Inhibit\fP and \fIRename Inhibit\fP. If
you want to remove these files by simple \fIunlink\fP, you should mount
volume with this option.
.RE

mount option \fBnostrong\fP
.RS 3
Refuse to remove \fIread-only\fP files. If you want remove such file, you
must first remove \fIread-only\fP attribute. It is standard behavior of
\fBncpfs\fP.
.RE

mount option \fBsymlinks\fP
.RS 3
Use special, normally unused, attributes combinations to express symlinks,
executable attributes and files readable by world.
.RE

mount option \fBnosymlinks\fP
.RS 3
Do not allow special meaning of 'shareable' attribute. This is a default.
.RE

mount option \fBipx\fP
.RS 3
Use \fIIPX\fP for connection to server. Default if no \fBipserver\fP option
specified on cmdline.
.RE

mount option \fBudp\fP
.RS 3
Use \fIUDP\fP for connection to server. Not available in 2.0.x kernels.
Default if \fBipserver\fP is used.
.RE

mount option \fBtcp\fP
.RS 3
Use \fITCP\fP for connection to server. Available only with 2.4.0 and later 
kernels.
.RE

mount option \fBnfsextras\fP
.RS 3
Use the meta-data provided by the NFS namespace to allow files' modes to 
be changed, and to allow the creation of symlinks and named pipes.  This
adds significant overhead to fetching file information.
.RE

mount option \fBnonfsextras\fP
.RS 3
Do not make use of meta-data provided by the NFS namespace.  This is
the default.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B USER / LOGNAME
.RS 3
The variables USER or LOGNAME may contain the username of the person
using the client.  USER is tried first. If it's empty, LOGNAME is
tried.
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

Most diagnostics issued by ncpfs are logged by syslogd. Normally
nothing is printed, only error situations are logged there.

.SH EXAMPLES
If you want to mount volume SYS as user DOWNLOAD from server MIRROR 
into directory /home/pub/mirror, with files owner mirror.mirror and file mode
-rw-r--r--, you can add

.B MIRROR/DOWNLOAD   /home/pub/mirror  ncp  defaults,mode=644,uid=mirror,gid=mirror,owner=root,volume=SYS,nopasswd,multiple

into \fI/etc/fstab\fP. You should always specify \fBmultiple\fP in 
mount options, otherwise there can be only one connection to server with same name.

.SH NOTES
.B IPX
.RS 3
You must configure the IPX subsystem before ncpmount will work.
It is especially important that there is a route to the internal network
of your server.
.RE

.B IP
.RS 3
You must specify both \fB-S\fP \fIlogical_name\fP and \fB-A\fP \fIdns_name\fP.
\fIlogical_name\fP is used for searching \fI.nwclient\fP, other 
configuration files and is logged into \fI/etc/mtab\fP, \fIdns_name\fP
is used for connecting to server. In future, logical_name will be read from server.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.B syslogd(8), ncpumount(8), nfsd(8), mountd(8), mount(8)

.SH CREDITS
ncpfs would not have been possible without lwared, written by Ales
Dryak (A.Dryak@sh.cvut.cz).

The encryption code was taken from Dr. Dobbs's Journal 11/93. There
Pawel Szczerbina described it in an article on NCP.

The ncpfs code was initially hacked from smbfs by Volker Lendecke
(lendecke@math.uni-goettingen.de). smbfs was put together by Paal-Kr. Engstad
(pke@engstad.ingok.hitos.no) and later polished by Volker.

Code is currently maintained by Petr Vandrovec (vandrove@vc.cvut.cz).
