.\" 1.01 Added -s and -B. Bruno Browning <bruno@lss.wisc.edu>
.TH NPRINT 1 12/27/1995 nprint nprint
.SH NAME
nprint \- NetWare print client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nprint
[ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ] [ \fB-h\fP ] [ \fB-U\fP \fIusername\fP | \fB-n\fP ] 
[ \fB-C\fP ] [ \fB-q\fP \fIqueuename\fP ] [ \fB-d\fP \fIjob-description\fP ]
[ \fB-p\fP \fIpathname-in-banner\fP ] [ \fB-B\fP \fIusername-in-banner\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP ]
[ \fB-f\fP \fIfilename-in-banner\fP ] [ \fB-l\fP \fIlines\fP ] 
[ \fB-r\fP \fIrows\fP ] [ \fB-c\fP \fIcopies\fP ] [ \fB-t\fP \fItab size\fP ]
[ \fB-T\fP ] [ \fB-N\fP ] [ \fB-F\fP \fIform-number\fP ] \fIfilename\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
With \fBnprint\fP, you can print files on print queues of a NetWare file 
server. 

There are a lot of options, so you should probably wrap some default
configurations into some shell scripts.

\fBnprint\fP looks up the file \fI$HOME/.nwclient\fP to find a file server, 
a user name and possibly a password. See nwclient(5) for more information. 
Please note that the access permissions of \fB.nwclient\fP MUST be 600, for 
security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS
.B filename
.RS 3
\fIfilename\fP is the name of the file you want to print. If file is '\fB\-\fP', 
or no filename is given, standard input is used.
.RE

.B -h
.RS 3
\fB-h\fP is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
\fIserver\fP is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I username
.RS 3
\fIusername\fP is the user name to use for the print request at the server.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
\fIpassword\fP is the password to use for the print request at the server. 
If neither \fB-n\fP nor \fB-P\fP are given, and the user has no open 
connection to the server, \fBnprint\fP prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
\fB-n\fP should be given if no password is required for the print request.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by \fB-C\fP.
.RE

.B -q
.I queuename
.RS 3
\fIqueuename\fP is the name of the print queue to use at the print 
server. At present, you must specify it in upper case characters.
.RE

.B -d
.I job-description
.RS 3
\fIjob-description\fP is the string that appears in pconsole when you 
list the jobs for the print queue. It will also appear in the "Description"
field on the banner page.
.RE

.B -p
.I pathname-in-banner
.RS 3
\fIpathname-in-banner\fP is the string (up to 79 characters) you want to 
be printed in the "Directory" field on the banner page.
.RE

.B -B
.I username-in-banner
.RS 3
\fIusername-in-banner\fP is the string (up to 12 characters) you want to 
appear on the lower part of the banner page. It will also appear in 
the "User name" field.
.RE

.B -s
.RS 3
Supress printing of banner page
.RE

.B -f
.I filename-in-banner
.RS 3
\fIfilename-in-banner\fP is the string (up to 12 characters) you want to 
appear in large letters on the lower part of the banner page. Default: the 
name of the file that is printed, or '\fBstdin\fP'.
.RE

.B -l
.I lines
.RS 3
\fIlines\fP is the number of lines to put on one page. Default: 66.
.RE

.B -r
.I rows
.RS 3
\fIrows\fP is the number of rows to put on one page. Default: 80.
.RE

.B -c
.I copies
.RS 3
\fIcopies\fP tells the print server to the specified number of copies. 
Default: 1.
.RE

.B -t
.I tabs
.RS 3
\fItabs\fP is the number of spaces to print for a Tab-Character. 
Default: 8.
.RE

.B -T
.RS 3
tells the print server to expand Tab-Character and use 8 spaces
.RE

.B -N
.RS 3
tells the print server \fBnot\fP to use Form Feeds
.RE

.B -F
.I form-number
.RS 3
\fIform-number\fP is the the number of the form to be put into the 
printer. If it's different from the one currently in the printer, 
your job is only printed if a printer operator has put in the correct form.
.RE

.SH NOTES
The '\fB-B\fP' option was formerly '\fB-b\fP'. But it conflicted 
with '\fIbindery only\fP' login option.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5), slist(1), pqlist(1), ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8)

.SH CREDITS
nprint was written by Volker Lendecke (lendecke@math.uni-goettingen.de)
