.TH NSEND 1 04/07/1999 nsend nsend
.SH NAME
nsend \- Send messages to users or groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsend
[ \fB-h\fP ] [ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ] [ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ]
[ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ] [ \fB-C\fP ] [ \fB-a\fP ]
\fB-i\fP \fIobjectID\fP | \fB-c\fP \fIconnNum\fP[,\fI...\fP] | 
{ [ \fB-t\fP \fIrecipient type\fP ] \fB-o\fP \fIrecipient name\fP |
\fIrecipient name\fP } \fImessage\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
With \fBnsend\fP, you can send messages to the user's workstations.

\fBnsend\fP looks up the file \fI$HOME/.nwclient\fP to find a file 
server, a user name and possibly a password. See nwclient(5) for more 
information. Please note that the access permissions of \fI.nwclient\fP
MUST be 0600, for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B recipient name
.RS 3
\fBrecipient name\fP is either the NetWare name of the user 
to receive the message or the name of an existing user group on 
that server. You can use wildcards in this specification.
.RE

.B -o
.I recipient name
.RS 3
Specifies recipient's name. This can specify user or group.
.RE

.B -t
.I recipent type
.RS 3
Specifies recipient's type.
.RE

\fB-c\fP \fIconnNum\fP[,\fI...\fP]
.RS 3
Specifies connection numbers of recipients. You can use this option
as workaround to deliver messages to directory services users.
.RE

\fB-i\fP \fIuserID\fP
.RS 3
Specifies recipient's object ID. You can use this option as workaround
to deliver messages to directory services users.
.RE

.B message
.RS 3
\fBmessage\fP is the message to be sent. Please note that this has 
to be a single command line argument. If you want to send a message 
that contains spaces, you have to quote them on the command line. 
For example, to annoy your system administrator, you should try

   nsend supervisor 'I know how this works!'
   
Program first searches (wildcards allowed) bindery with 
\fIrecipients name\fP and \fItype\fP. If \fBuser\fP is found, message 
is sent to this user, if \fBgroup\fP is found, message is sent to this 
group. Other object types are ignored. If no suitable object was found 
in this phase, \fBconnection list\fP for specified object is retrieved 
(no wildcards allowed) and message is sent to this object (including
\fBprint servers\fP and so on). No expansions on \fBgroup\fP is done
this time.
.RE

.B -a
.RS 3
By default, nsend prepends 'From ....' text to message. You can suppress
this by adding \fB-a\fP to command line.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
\fBserver\fP is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user name
.RS 3
If the user name your NetWare administrator gave to you differs
from your unix user-id, you should use \fB-U\fP to tell the 
server about your NetWare user name.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
You may want to give the password required by the server on the
command line. You should be careful about using passwords in scripts.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
\fB-n\fP should be given if specified user does not have password.

If neither \fB-n\fP nor \fB-P\fP are given, nsend prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by \fB-C\fP.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Directory services connection are not supported yet.
.br
Options \fB-c\fP, \fB-i\fP and \fB-o\fP cannot be used together.
.br
If user is specified multiple times (using wildcards in group
specification or by repeating same number in \fB-c\fP), message
is delivered multiple times to him.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5), nprint(1), slist(1), ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8)

.SH CREDITS
nsend was written by looking at mars_nwe's message handling. Thanks to
Martin Stover <mstover@freeway.de>.
.br
Support for Netware groups by Philippe Andersson
<philippe_andersson@ste.scitex.com>.
.br
Support for connections greater than 255 by Petr Vandrovec 
<vandrove@vc.cvut.cz>.
