.TH NWAUTH 1 10/27/1996 nwauth nwauth
.SH NAME
nwauth \- Verify username/password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwauth
[ \fB-h\fP ] [ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ] [ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ] [ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ] [ \fB-D\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnwauth\fP 
does nothing but logging into a NetWare server. If the login was
successful, an error code of 0 is returned. If the login was not
successful, an error code of 1 is returned. It was designed for
use by other programs who want authenticate users via a NetWare
server.

If there is no \fB-P\fP or \fB-n\fP option specified on command line,
nwauth \fBalways\fP expects a password on stdin. If the stdin is a tty, 
then the user is prompted for a password. Otherwise nwauth simply reads 
stdin for a password.

.B nwauth
looks up the file \fI$HOME/.nwclient\fP to find a file server and 
a user name if they are not specified on command line. See nwclient(5) 
for more information. Please note that the access permissions of \fI.nwclient\fP
MUST be 600, for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user name
.RS 3
If the user name your NetWare administrator gave to you differs
from your unix user-id, you should use
.B -U
to tell the server about your NetWare user name.
.RE

.B -D
.RS 3
\fBnwauth\fP says that your password is correct if you have existing
connection to \fIserver\fP with name \fIuser name\fP. This is handy
for some shell scripts, but it is unacceptable for authorization
modules, such as PAM, PHP or Apache. It was pointed to me that
this behavior was not well known, and there exist at least one PAM
module which does not know that (this module is not part of ncpfs; you
should use PAM module which comes with ncpfs instead anyway).
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5)

.SH CREDITS
nwauth was written by Volker Lendecke (lendecke@math.uni-goettingen.de)
