.TH NWBOPROPS 1 7/9/1996 nwboprops nwboprops
.SH NAME
nwboprops \- List properies of a NetWare Bindery Object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwboprops
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -o
.I object name
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -v
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwboprops
lists all the properties of the specified NetWare Bindery Objects.

.B nwboprops
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwboprops
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -o
.I object name
.RS 3
The name of the object to be inspected.
.RE

.B -t
.I object type
.RS 3
The type of the object.
.I Object type
must be specified as a decimal value. Common values are 1 for user
objects, 2 for group objects and 3 for print queues. Other values are
allowed, but are usually used for specialized applications.
.RE

.B -v
.RS 3
By default, only the property name is listed. In verbose mode,
activated by 
.B -v,
the property flag, the property security byte and the value flag are
also listed.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwboprops was written by Volker Lendecke with the corresponding
Caldera utility in mind. See the Changes file of ncpfs for other
contributors.
