.TH NWBOLS 1 7/9/1996 nwbols nwbols
.SH NAME
nwbols \- List NetWare Bindery Objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwbols
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -o
.I pattern
] [
.B -v
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwbols
lists the specified NetWare Bindery Objects visible for the user.

.B nwbols
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwbols
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -t
.I type
.RS 3
You can restrict the objects listed by specifying the type of the
objects to be listed. 
.I type
must be given as a decimal number.
.RE

.B -o
.I pattern
.RS 3
Specifying a pattern is another way to restrict the objects
listed. Please note that this pattern is evaluated by the NetWare
server. grep would be a better candidate for complex patterns.
.RE

.B -v
.RS 3
By default, the object's name, its ID and its type are listed by
.B nwbols.
In the verbose mode, activated by
.B -v,
the object flags, its security byte and the properties flag is also
listed.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwbols was written by Volker Lendecke. See the Changes file of ncpfs
for other contributors.
