.TH NWBPADD 8 7/9/1996 nwbpadd nwbpadd
.SH NAME
nwbpadd \- Set the value of a NetWare Bindery Property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwbpadd
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -o
.I object name
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -p
.I property
]
.B value

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwbpadd
sets the value of a ITEM type property, and adds bindery objects to a
SET type property.

.B nwbpadd
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwbpadd
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -o
.I object name
.RS 3
The name of the object to be touched.
.RE

.B -t
.I object type
.RS 3
The type of the object.
.I Object type
must be specified as a decimal value. Common values are 1 for user
objects, 2 for group objects and 3 for print queues. Other values are
allowed, but are usually used for specialized applications.
.RE

.B -p
.I property
.RS 3
The name of the property to be set.
.RE

.B value
.RS 3
If property is of type SET, value is an object id in hexadecimal
notation.  Otherwise, value is either a string value to be written, or
a count of bytes to be written. The latter is assumed if more than one
value argument is given. The count is decimal, and the following
arguments are interpreted as bytes in hexadecimal notation.

Examples:

All these examples assume the existence of the file
$HOME/.nwclient. Otherwise, the server and user would have to be
specified.

nwbpadd -o linus -t 1 -p groups_i\\'m_in 030a0002

In this example, user linus is added to the group whose ID is 030a0002. Please
note that the ' has to be quoted.

nwbpadd -o linus -t 1 -p identification "Linus Torvalds"

User linus is given his real name :-).

nwbpadd -o linus -t 1 -p revision -v 04 00 00 01 0b

A new 4-byte binary value 0x0000010b (hi-lo order, no byte-swapping) is added
to the "REVISION" property of the user "linus".

.SH AUTHORS
nwbpadd was written by Volker Lendecke with the corresponding Caldera
utility in mind. See the Changes file of ncpfs for other contributors.
