.TH NWBPCREATE 8 7/9/1996 nwbpcreate nwbpcreate
.SH NAME
nwbpcreate \- Create a NetWare Bindery Propery
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwbpcreate
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -o
.I object name
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -p
.I property
] [
.B -s
] [
.B -r
.I read-flag
] [
.B -w
.I write-flag
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwbpcreate
creates the specified NetWare Bindery Propery.

.B nwbpcreate
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwbpcreate
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -o
.I object name
.RS 3
The name of the object to be touched.
.RE

.B -t
.I object type
.RS 3
The type of the object.
.I Object type
must be specified as a decimal value. Common values are 1 for user
objects, 2 for group objects and 3 for print queues. Other values are
allowed, but are usually used for specialized applications.
.RE

.B -p
.I property
.RS 3
The name of the property to be created.
.RE

.B -s
.RS 3
By default,
.B nwbpcreate
creates properties of type ITEM. If you want to create a property of
type SET, such as groups_i\\'m_in, you must use the
.B -s
option.
.RE

.B -r
.I read-flag

.B -w
.I write-flag
.RS 3

Read security and write security may each have one of the following values:

 ANYONE:     Anyone may access the property
 LOGGED:     Anyone who is logged in may access the 
             property
 OBJECT:     Anyone who is logged in as the object or
             SUPERVISOR equivalent may access the 
             property
 SUPERVISOR: Anyone who is logged in as SUPERVISOR 
             equivalent may access the property
 NETWARE:    Only the Bindery may access the property
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwbpcreate was written by Volker Lendecke with the corresponding
Caldera utility in mind. See the Changes file of ncpfs for other
contributors.
