.TH NWBPSET 1 8/7/1996 nwbpset nwbpset
.SH NAME
nwbpset \- Create a bindery property or set its value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwbpset
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwbpset
Reads a property specification from the standard input and creates and
sets the corresponding property. The format is determined by the
output of 'nwbpvalues -c'. nwbpset will hopefully become an important
part of the bindery management suite of ncpfs, together with
'nwbpvalues -c'. See util/nwbpsecurity for an example.

As another example, look at the following command line:

  nwbpvalues -t 1 -o supervisor -p user_defaults -c |\\ 
  sed '2s/.*/ME/'|\\
  sed '3s/.*/LOGIN_CONTROL/'|\\
  nwbpset

With this command, the property user_defaults of the user object
\'supervisor\' is copied into the property login_control of the user
object \'me\'.

  nwbpvalues -t 1 -o me -p login_control -c |\\
  sed '9s/.*/ff/'|\\
  nwbpset

This command disables the user object me.

Feel free to contribute other examples!

.B nwbpset
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwbpset
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwbpset was written by Volker Lendecke. See the Changes file of ncpfs
for other contributors.
