.TH NWBPRM 8 7/9/1996 nwbprm nwbprm
.SH NAME
nwbprm \- Remove a NetWare Bindery Propery
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwbprm
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -o
.I object name
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -p
.I property
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwbprm
removes the specified NetWare Bindery Propery.

.B nwbprm
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwbprm
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -o
.I object name
.RS 3
The name of the object to be touched.
.RE

.B -t
.I object type
.RS 3
The type of the object.
.I Object type
must be specified as a decimal value. Common values are 1 for user
objects, 2 for group objects and 3 for print queues. Other values are
allowed, but are usually used for specialized applications.
.RE

.B -p
.I property
.RS 3
The name of the property to be removed.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwbprm was written by Volker Lendecke with the corresponding
Caldera utility in mind. See the Changes file of ncpfs for other
contributors.
