.TH NWCLIENT 5 12/27/1995 nwclient nwclient
.SH NAME
nwclient \- configuration file for NWClient program suite
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page describes the rather simple format of the file
.B $HOME/.nwclient,
the configuration file for the NWClient program suite.
.SH FILE FORMAT
The file 
.B $HOME/.nwclient
consists of several lines, each describing a NWClient
connection. Lines beginning with # and empty lines are ignored as
comments.

Because you can store passwords in .nwclient, the user programs will
only scan .nwclient when only the file owner has access rights to
the file. The file must be have permissions 0600.

To specify a NWClient connection, the name of the file server, the
user name to be used and a password is necessary. The server name and
the user name are specified as SERVER/USER, and the password is
separated by a blank. The password field can be omitted. In this case
the user programs will ask you for a password. If you specify the
password to be just a dash, then no password is used.

The first valid specification has a special meaning: If the user does
not name a server on the command line, the first specification is used
as a 'preferred connection'.

An example might be the following:

   # The preferred connection, the user is asked
   # for a password
   FS311/ME
   # And a passwordless account on another server 
   CD-SERV/GUEST -

With these lines in $HOME/.nwclient, calling 'ncpmount /mnt' will mount
the the file server FS311 with user name ME on /mnt after asking the
user for a password.

\fIncpmount -S cd-serv /cd\fP will silently mount the server cd-serv on /cd.

\fBnprint\fP, \fBpqlist\fP and other user programs that require a valid 
login also look up \fI$HOME/.nwclient\fP to find a file server, a user 
name and possibly a password. 

Please note that the access permissions of .nwclient MUST be 600, for
security reasons.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8), slist(1), pqlist(1), nprint(1)
