.TH nwerrors 3NCP 04/13/1999 "libncp (>= 2.2.0.14)" "Netware Calls Library"
.SH NAME
nwerrors \- list of error codes returned by libncp calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nwcalls.h>

.B "NWE_*"


.B #include <nwnet.h>

.B "ERR_*"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is list of codes returned by functions in \fBlibncp\fP. Error codes
are split into several groups:

.B OK
.RS 3
When \fIzero\fP is returned, call was processed without problems.
.RE

.B libc errors
.RS 3
These values are same as \fIerrno\fP values and they are listed in
\fIerrno\fP(3). Return value is \fBlibc error\fP if it is in range 
\fI1\-511\fP.
.RE

.B RPC errors (obsolete)
.RS 3
These error codes are returned only by \fINWSM*\fP group of functions.
They are in range \fI512\-524\fP.
.RE 

.B libncp specific errors
.RS 3
These error codes are in range \fI0x8700\-0x87FF\fP and are used
for reporting non-standard problems in \fBlibncp\fP.
.RE

.B requester errors
.RS 3
These error codes are in range \fI0x8800\-0x88FF\fP and are used
for reporting standard problems in \fBlibncp\fP.
.RE

.B server errors
.RS 3
These error codes in range \fI0x8900\-0x89FF\fP are error codes
returned by server when calling \fBNCP\fP functions.
.RE

.B NDS errors
.RS 3
Error codes in range \fI\-1000 ... \-256\fP are returned by NDS server
system (\fI\-600 ... -799\fP), by local NDS system (\fI\-300 ... -399\fP)
and by other subsystems (\fIother\fP).
.RE

.B reserved errors
.RS 3
Range \fI\-255 ... \-1\fP is reserved. If some function returns this value,
it is bug (this is probably forgotten \fBlibc\fP return value (\fI\-1\fP)
or negative \fIerrno\fP value)). Other ranges, not mentioned in this document,
are reserved for future expansion.
.RE

.SH "LIBNCP SPECIFIC ERRORS"

.TP
.IB "0x8701   " NCPLIB_INVALID_MODE
~/.nwclient file has not mode 0600 or 0400 \fIor\fP
.br
~/.nwclient file is readable or writeable by group or world

.SH "REQUESTER ERRORS"

.TP
.IB "0x880E   " NWE_BUFFER_OVERFLOW
Requested information is larger than supplied buffer.

.TP
.IB "0x880F   " NWE_SERVER_NO_CONN
You have no connection to server (at this time, if ~/.nwclient is empty,
this error is returned).

.TP
.IB "0x8816   " NWE_INVALID_NCP_PACKET_LENGTH
Reply returned by server fails in some consistency check (reply is shorter
than expected).

.TP
.IB "0x8834   " NWE_USER_NO_NAME
User name not specified (returned by ncp_find_conn_spec if user name was
not found).

.TP
.IB "0x8836   " NWE_PARAM_INVALID
Invalid parameter (\fINULL\fP, out of range...) was passed into some 
function.

.TP
.IB "0x8847   " NWE_SERVER_NOT_FOUND
Specified server was not found (see also \fI0x89FC\fP:\fBNWE_SERVER_UNKNOWN\fP).
This error is returned, if ANY server was not found on the network
(no response from SAP resolver).

.TP
.IB "0x8861   " NWE_SIGNATURE_LEVEL_CONFLICT
Requested signature level is not compatible with server setting.

.TP
.IB "0x8870   " NWE_INVALID_LEVEL
Unknown information type was requested from \fBNWCCGetConnInfo\fP.

.TP
.IB "0x88FF   " NWE_REQUESTER_FAILURE
Unspecified \fBlibncp\fP error, \fBncp\fP unavailable and so on.

.SH "SERVER ERRORS"

.TP
.IB "0x89D3   " NWE_Q_NO_RIGHTS
You have not rights to specified (print) queue.

.TP
.IB "0x89DF   " NWE_PASSWORD_EXPIRED
Your password has expired, this login was `grace' login.

.TP
.IB "0x89E9   " NWE_BIND_MEMBER_ALREADY_EXISTS
Object is already in set.

.TP
.IB "0x89FB   " NWE_NCP_NOT_SUPPORTED
Attempted function is not available on this version of NetWare.

.TP
.IB "0x89FC   " NWE_SERVER_UNKNOWN
Server was not found.

.TP
.IB "0x89FD   " NWE_CONN_NUM_INVALID
Operation attempted on invalid connection (\fBNWClearConnection\fP(3ncp),
\fBNWGetConnInfo\fP(3ncp), ...) or your own connection timed out
(\fBnds4linux\fP).

.TP
.IB "0x89FF   " NWE_SERVER_FAILURE
Unspecified server error (bad parameters passed, LinWare/Mars/Windows on
other end of wire, bad password, ...).

.SH "NDS/UNICODE ERRORS"

.TP
.IB "\-301     " ERR_NOT_ENOUGH_MEMORY
Not enough memory (see also \fBerrno\fP(3):\fIENOMEM\fP).

.TP
.IB "\-302     " ERR_BAD_KEY
Invalid key value DCK_* passed to \fBNWDSGetContext\fP or \fBNWDSSetContext\fP.

.TP
.IB "\-303     " ERR_BAD_CONTEXT
Invalid \fBNWDSContextHandle\fP was passed to some of \fBNWDS*\fP functions.

.TP
.IB "\-304     " ERR_BUFFER_FULL
Information is larger than passed buffer.

.TP
.IB "\-307     " ERR_BUFFER_EMPTY
Requested information does not exist in buffer. It can be programmer's error
or unexpected reply from server.

.TP
.IB "\-308     " ERR_BAD_VERB
Operation attempted with buffer prepared for something else or buffer cannot
contain requested information.

.TP
.IB "\-309     " ERR_EXPECTED_IDENTIFIER
Object name fails on some check (multiple dots, two equals or plus signs,
backslash at the end of name...)

.TP
.IB "\-311     " ERR_ATTR_TYPE_EXPECTED
If object has multiple naming attributes, you must specify all with or
without types, you must not mix it.

.TP
.IB "\-312     " ERR_ATTR_TYPE_NOT_EXPECTED
If object has multiple naming attributes, you must specify all without or
with types, you must not mix it.

.TP
.IB "\-314     " ERR_INVALID_OBJECT_NAME
Something is wrong with object name (odd length returned by server, string
returned from server is not zero terminated, object name is absolute, but
has dot(s) at the end (\fI.object.tree.\fP)).

.TP
.IB "\-315     " ERR_EXPECTED_RDN_DELIMITER
Something is wrong with object name (multiple equal signs without intervening
dot or plus sign).

.TP
.IB "\-316     " ERR_TOO_MANY_TOKENS
Something is wrong with object name (there is more dots at the end of object 
name than levels in current context name).

.TP
.IB "\-317     " ERR_INCONSISTENT_MULTIAVA
You are trying to apply default naming rule on typeless name with multiple
naming attributes.

.TP
.IB "\-318     " ERR_COUNTRY_NAME_TOO_LONG
Country name must not exceed two characters.

.TP
.IB "\-319     " ERR_SYSTEM_ERROR
Something went wrong.

.TP
.IB "\-322     " ERR_INVALID_HANDLE
Application passed invalid iteration handle to one of NWDS* functions.
It is bug in application.

.TP
.IB "\-323     " ERR_BUFFER_ZERO_LENGTH
Application passed empty request buffer to one of NWDS* functions. It is
bug in application.

.TP
.IB "\-328     " ERR_CONTEXT_CREATION
An error occured in \fBNWDSCreateContext\fP. You should use 
\fBNWDSCreateContextHandle\fP, which has better error reporting.

.TP
.IB "\-330     " ERR_INVALID_SERVER_RESPONSE
Unexpected reply was returned from server.

.TP
.IB "\-331     " ERR_NULL_POINTER
NULL pointer was passed to some function. Only (some) output parameters can
be NULL.

.TP
.IB "\-333     " ERR_NO_CONNECTION
You have not any connection for this context handle. At this moment (2.2.0.17),
call NWDSAddConnection(NWDSContextHandle, NWCONN_HANDLE).

.TP
.IB "\-335     " ERR_DUPLICATE_TYPE
If object has multiple naming attributes, they must not have same name.

.TP
.IB "\-337     " ERR_NOT_LOGGED_IN
You are trying to authenticate connection before you logged in. You must
first do \fBNWDSLogin\fP before call to \fBNWDSAuthenticate\fP.

.TP
.IB "\-338     " ERR_INVALID_PASSWORD_CHARS
Invalid characters in password.

.TP
.IB "\-340     " ERR_TRANSPORT
Transport not supported / referral addresses does not include any supported
protocol.

.TP
.IB "\-341     " ERR_NO_SUCH_SYNTAX
Invalid Syntax ID was passed to NWDSGet/NWDSPut/NWDSCompute function.

.TP
.IB "\-342     " ERR_INVALID_DS_NAME
Multiple dots or some other problem (currently only in \fBRemoveAllTypes\fP).

.TP
.IB "\-348     " ERR_UNICODE_FILE_NOT_FOUND
Tables required for local<->unicode translation were not found (system
defaults to \fIISO_8859-1\fP).

.TP
.IB "\-353     " ERR_DN_TOO_LONG
Object name is too long.

.TP
.IB "\-354     " ERR_RENAME_NOT_ALLOWED
\fBNWDSMoveObject\fP cannot be used to rename object. Use either \fBNWDSModifyRDN\fP
or \fBNWDSModifyDN\fP function calls.

.TP
.IB "\-601     " ERR_NO_SUCH_ENTRY
Specified object does not exist.

.TP
.IB "\-603     " ERR_NO_SUCH_ATTRIBUTE
None of requested attributes exists.

.TP
.IB "\-641     " ERR_INVALID_REQUEST
Server did not understand your request. Either your program did not fill
up request buffer properly or server DS is too old.

.TP
.IB "\-656     " ERR_CRUCIAL_REPLICA
Replica cannot be removed (or type cannot be changed) because of it is last master 
replica of an partition.

.TP
.IB "\-659     " ERR_TIME_NOT_SYNCHRONIZED
Server time is not synchronized with rest of tree.

.TP
.IB "\-669     " ERR_FAILED_AUTHENTICATION
Invalid password or authentication time window exceeded.

.TP
.IB "\-683     " ERR_INVALID_API_VERSION
Server does not support this API version - it is too old.
One of examples is \fBNWDSAddObject\fP if server does
not support fragmented \fBDSV_ENTRY_ADD\fP, but you asked for it.
Another example is \fBNWDSListPartitionsExtInfo\fP.

.TP
.IB "\-700     " ERR_OBSOLETE_API
Server does not support this API version - this API call is no
longer supported. One of examples is \fBNWDSRemovePartition\fP if
server runs NDS8.

.SH BUGS
This manual page is incomplete and some error descriptions are confusing.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "NWCallsInit" (3ncp), " NWCallsTerm"(3ncp)
