.TH NWFSCTRL 1 2/12/1999 nwfsctrl nwfsctrl
.SH NAME
nwfsctrl \- Perform server command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwfsctrl
[ \fB-h\fP ]
[ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ]
[ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ]
[ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ]
[ \fB-C\fP ]
[ \fB-p\fP \fIncpfs path\fP ]
\fB-c\fP | \fB-o\fP | \fB-\fP[\fBf\fP]\fBd\fP

\fBnwfsctrl
[ \fB-h\fP ]
[ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ]
[ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ]
[ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ]
[ \fB-C\fP ]
[ \fB-p\fP \fIncpfs path\fP ]
\fIserver command\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwfsctrl
performs command on server.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
With -h nwfsctrl prints a little help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login. To set the server's time, you need
supervisor privileges.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwfstime
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login. As you need
supervisor privileges for setting the date and time, this option is
probably not used very often.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -o
.RS 3
Open bindery.
.RE

.B -c
.RS 3
Close bindery.
.RE

.B -d
.RS 3
Down fileserver. This command will complain if there are open files on server.
.RE

.B -fd
.RS 3
Down fileserver, regardless of opened files.
.RE

\fBload\fP \fImodule options...\fP
.RS 3
Load module \fImodule\fP with options \fIoptions...\fP on server. Program
will complain if \fImodule\fP is already loaded.
.RE

\fBunload\fP \fImodule\fP
.RS 3
Unload module \fImodule\fP from server. Program will complain if \fImodule\fP
is not loaded.
.RE

\fBmount\fP \fIvolume\fP
.RS 3
Mount volume \fIvolume\fP.
.RE

\fBdismount\fP \fIvolume\fP
.RS 3
Dismount volume \fIvolume\fP. \fBIf there are open files on volume, server
displays prompt on console. You must go to the server (or telnet/xconsole) and 
hit \fP\fIY\fP \fBor\fP \fIN\fP \fBto get beyond this point).\fP
.RE

\fBset\fP \fIvariable\fP \fB=\fP \fIvalue\fP
.RS 3
Set server settable variable \fIvariable\fP to value \fIvalue\fP.
.RE

\fBopen bindery\fP
.RS 3
Open bindery.
.RE

\fBclose bindery\fP
.RS 3
Close bindery.
.RE

\fBenable login\fP
.RS 3
Enable login to file server.
.RE

\fBdisable login\fP
.RS 3
Disable login to file server.
.RE

\fBdisable tts\fP
.RS 3
Disable TTS. This probably does not work on Netware 4.11.
.RE

\fBenable tts\fP
.RS 3
Enable TTS. This probably does not work on Netware 4.11.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Other commands are not written yet (\fBvolume\fP, \fBclear connection\fP ...)

.SH CREDITS
This utility was created by Petr Vandrovec (vandrove@vc.cvut.cz) and
is part of ncpfs since 2.2.0.11.
