.TH NWGETOBJECTCONNECTIONNUMBERS 3NCP 04/13/1999 "libncp (>= 2.2.0.14)"
.\" Netware Calls Library
.SH NAME
NWGetObjectConnectionNumbers \- Retrieve connection list of specified object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nwcalls.h>

.BI "NWCCODE NWGetObjectConnectionNumbers(NWCONN_HANDLE " conn ", const char* " name ","
.BI "nuint16 " type ", size_t* " noOfReturnedConns ","
.BI "NWCONN_NUM* " connList ", size_t " maxConns ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function retrieves connection list of specified object from server.

.B conn
.RS 3
\fBconn\fP contains connection handle obtained from \fIncp_open\fP(3ncp) or
\fINWParsePath\fP(3ncp).
.RE

.B name
.RS 3
\fBname\fP contains bindery object name. Wildcards are not supported.
Must not be \fINULL\fP.
.RE

.B type
.RS 3
\fBtype\fP contains bindery object type. \fINCP_BINDERY_USER\fP should
be specified in most cases.
.RE

.B noOfReturnedConns
.RS 3
\fBnoOfReturnedConns\fP contains number of returned connections. It may
be \fINULL\fP, there is no reason for pass \fINULL\fP into this function.
.RE

.B connList
.RS 3
\fBconnList\fP is array for returned connection numbers. It may be
\fINULL\fP, in this case, only \fInoOfReturnedConns\fP is returned.
.RE

.B maxConns
.RS 3
\fBmaxConns\fP holds maximum number of returned connections. \fBconnList\fP
must be \fINULL\fP or large enough for 
.BI maxConns " * sizeof(" NWCONN_NUM ")"
bytes.
.RE

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Function returns \fBzero\fP on success and \fBnon-zero\fP on failure.
If specified object does not exist, success is returned and 
\fInoOfReturnedConns\fP is set to \fBzero\fP.

See \fInwerrors\fP(3ncp) for complete list of  error codes.


.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "nwerrors" (3ncp) ", NWGetConnListFromObject" (3ncp)
