.TH NWGETCONNLISTFROMOBJECT 3NCP 04/13/1999 "libncp (>= 2.2.0.14)"
.\" Netware Calls Library
.SH NAME
NWGetConnListFromObject \- Retrieve connection list of specified object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nwcalls.h>

.BI "NWCCODE NWGetConnListFromObject(NWCONN_HANDLE " conn ", nuint32 " objID ","
.BI "NWCONN_NUM " firstConn ", size_t* " noOfReturnedConns ","
.BI "NWCONN_NUM* " connList ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function retrieves connection list of specified object from server.

.B conn
.RS 3
\fBconn\fP contains connection handle obtained from \fIncp_open\fP(3ncp) or
\fINWParsePath\fP(3ncp).
.RE

.B objID
.RS 3
\fBobjID\fP contains server specific object ID. For bindery, it is object
ID, for NDS objects it is local entry number.
.RE

.B firstConn
.RS 3
\fBfirstConn\fP specifies, from which connection start search. Use \fI0\fP
on first call and highest returned value on subsequent.
.RE

.B noOfReturnedConns
.RS 3
\fBnoOfReturnedConns\fP contains number of returned connections. It may
be \fINULL\fP, there is no reason for pass \fINULL\fP into this function.
At most 125 connections are returned at once.
.RE

.B connList
.RS 3
\fBconnList\fP is array for returned connection numbers. It may be
\fINULL\fP, in this case, only \fInoOfReturnedConns\fP is returned.
\fBconnList\fP array must be able to hold 125 entries.
.RE

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Function returns \fBzero\fP on success and \fBnon-zero\fP on failure.
If specified object does not exist, success is returned and 
\fInoOfReturnedConns\fP is set to \fBzero\fP.
.br
If \fBnoOfReturnedConns\fP is 125, it is possible that list is incomplete
and \fBNWGetConnListFromObject\fP should be invoked again for another
set of connections.

See \fInwerrors\fP(3ncp) for complete list of  error codes.


.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "nwerrors" (3ncp) ", NWGetObjectConnectionNumbers" (3ncp)
