.TH NWGRANT 8 5/19/2000 nwgrant nwgrant
.SH NAME
nwgrant \- Add Trustee Rights to a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwgrant
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -o
.I object name
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -r
.I rights
]
.B file/directory

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwgrant
adds the specified bindery object with the corresponding trustee
rights to the directory.

.B nwgrant
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwgrant
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -o
.I object name
.RS 3
The name of the object to be added as trustee.
.RE

.B -t
.I object type
.RS 3
The type of the object.
.I Object type
must be specified as a decimal value. Common values are 1 for user
objects, 2 for group objects and 3 for print queues. Other values are
allowed, but are usually used for specialized applications. If you
do not specify \fIobject type\fP, \fIobject name\fP is taken as
NDS name.
.RE

.B -r
.I rights
.RS 3
You must tell
.B nwgrant
which rights it should grant to the bindery object.
The new rights for the object is specified by
.I rights,
which can be either a hexadecimal number representing the sum of all
the individual rights to be granted or a string containing characters
representing each right.  If rights are represented in string format
then the string must be bounded with square brackets.  Characters
within the brackets may be in any order and in either case.  Spaces are
allowed between the brackets - in which case the entire string should be
quoted.
Hexadecimal and character values for the rights are shown in this table:

    00 = no access
    01 = read access        = R
    02 = write access       = W
    08 = create access      = C
    10 = delete access      = E
    20 = ownership access   = A
    40 = search access      = F
    80 = modify access      = M
   100 = supervisory access = S

for a possible total of "1fb" or "[SRWCEMFA]" for all rights.
.RE

.B file/directory
.RS 3
You must specify the directory to which to add the object as
trustee. This has to be done in fully qualified NetWare notation.

Example:

nwgrant -S NWSERVER -o linus -t 1 -r fb 'data:home\\linus'

With this example, user linus is given all rights except supervisory
to his home directory on the data volume. This example assumes the 
existence of the file $HOME/.nwclient.

nwgrant -o linus -t 1 -r fb /home/linus/ncpfs/data/home/linus

With this example, user linus is given all rights except supervisory
to his home directory on the data volume. This example assumes that
NWSERVER is already mounted on /home/linus/ncpfs mountpoint.

.SH AUTHORS
nwgrant was written by Volker Lendecke with the corresponding NetWare
utility in mind. See the Changes file of ncpfs for other contributors.

