.TH NWPJMV 1 03/15/2003 nwpjmv nwpjmv
.SH NAME
nwpjvm \- Move print job to Unix queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwpjmv
[
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -h
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -q
.I queue name
] [
.B -c
.I command
] [
.B -j
.I job number
] [
.B -d
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwpjmv
is a program that connects to print queues on NetWare servers and
moves a designated print job to a Unix queue.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the print server name at the server.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for the print server at the server. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, pserver
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if the print server does not require a password.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -q
.I queue name
.RS 3
.B queue name 
is the name of the print queue you want to service.
.RE

.B -c
.I command
.RS 3
nwpjmv removes the designated job from the Novell queue and feeds the job file to stdin.
.I command
is the printing command that is executed for each job. The default
command is 'lpr'.

You can insert several flags into the command, preceded by %. These
are replaced with values retrieved from the queue structure for the
print job.

%u: This field will be replaced by the name of the user who posted
this print job.

%d: This field will be replaced by the job description field of 
this print job.
.RE

.B -j
.I job number
.RS 3
This designates the ID number of the print job to be moved.
.RE

.B -d
causes extra error messages to be logged.
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5), slist(1), pqlist(1), ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8), pserver(1)

.SH CREDITS
nwpjmv was written by Bruno Browning (bruno@lss.wisc.edu) based on 
pserver by Volker Lendecke (lendecke@math.uni-goettingen.de)
