.TH NWPQJOB 1 07/16/2003 nwpqjob nwpqjob
.SH NAME
nwpqjob \- Perform operations on the jobs in NetWare print queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnwpqjob\fP [ \fB-h\fP ] [ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ] [ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ] 
[ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ] [ \fB-C\fP ] < \fB-d\fP | \fB-r\fP > \fIqueue_name\fP 
\fIjob_ID\fP [ \fIanother_job_ID\fP ... ]

\fBpqrm\fP [ \fB-h\fP ] [ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ] [ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ] 
[ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ] [ \fB-C\fP ] \fIqueue_name\fP 
\fIjob_ID\fP [ \fIanother_job_ID\fP ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpqrm\fP or \fBnwpqjob -d\fP remove specified jobs from the specified NetWare print queue.

\fBnwpqjob -r\fP resumes specified job in the specified NetWare print queue.

\fBnwpqjob\fP looks up the file \fI$HOME/.nwclient\fP to find a file server, 
a user name and possibly a password. See nwclient(5) for more information. 
Please note that the access permissions of \fB.nwclient\fP MUST be 600, for 
security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -d
.RS 3
Delete specified print job(s). This is default operation for \fBpqrm\fP.
.RE

.B -r
.RS 3
Resume (clear \fIOPERATOR HOLD\fP and \fIUSER HOLD\fP flags) specified print job(s).
.RE

.B queue_name
.RS 3
.B queue_name
is used to specify queue. You can not use wildcards in the name.
.RE

.B job_ID
, 
.B another_job_ID
.RS 3
.B job_ID
is used to specify which job has to be deleted or resumed.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user name
.RS 3
If the user name your NetWare administrator gave to you differs
from your unix user-id, you should use
.B -U
to tell the server about your NetWare user name.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
You may want to give the password required by the server on the
command line. You should be careful about using passwords in scripts.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given to mount shares which do not require a password to log in.

If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, pqstat prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5), nprint(1), slist(1), ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8), pqlist(1), pqstat(1)

.SH CREDITS
nwpqjob was written by Petr Vandrovec (vandrove@vc.cvut.cz). Resuming of print
jobs was added by Zdenek Roub (zroub@ssps.zcu.cz).
