.TH NWREVOKE 8 7/9/1996 nwrevoke nwrevoke
.SH NAME
nwrevoke \- Revoke a Trustee Right from a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwrevoke
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -o
.I object name
] [
.B -t
.I type
] [
.B -r
.I rights
]
.B file/directory

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwrevoke
revokes the specified bindery object with the corresponding trustee
rights from the directory.

.B nwrevoke
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

\fB-h\fP
.RS 3
\fB-h\fP is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

\fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP
.RS 3
\fBserver\fP is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

\fB-U\fP \fIuser\fP
.RS 3
\fBuser\fP is the user name to use for login.
.RE

\fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP
.RS 3
\fBpassword\fP is the password to use for login. If neither
\fB-n\fP nor \fB-P\fP are given, and the user has no open 
connection to the server, nwrevoke prompts for a password.
.RE

\fB-n\fP
.RS 3
\fB-n\fP should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

\fB-C\fP
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by \fB-C\fP.
.RE

\fB-o\fP \fIobject name\fP
.RS 3
The name of the object to be added as trustee.
.RE

\fB-t\fP \fIobject type\fP
.RS 3
The type of the object. \fIObject type\fP must be specified as 
a decimal value. Common values are 1 for user objects, 2 for group 
objects and 3 for print queues. Other values are allowed, but are 
usually used for specialized applications. If \fIobject type\fP is
not specified, \fIobject name\fP is taken as \fBNDS\fP name.
.RE

\fBfile/directory\fP
.RS 3
You must specify the file/directory from which to remove the object as
trustee. If you specified \fB-S\fP, it must be fully qualified 
NetWare notation for DOS namespace. Otherwise it must be file or directory
mounted to your system using ncpfs.

Example:

nwrevoke -S NWSERVER -o linus -t 1 'src:bsd_src'

With this example, user linus is removed as trustee from the bsd_src
directory on the src volume on server NWSERVER.

nwrevoke -o linus -t 1 /home/vana/ncpfs/nwserver/src/bsd_src

With this example, user linus is removed as trustee from the bsd_src
directory.

.SH AUTHORS
nwrevoke was written by Volker Lendecke with the corresponding NetWare
utility in mind. See the Changes file of ncpfs for other contributors.

