.TH NWTRUSTEE 8 7/9/1996 nwtrustee nwtrustee
.SH NAME
nwtrustee \- List an object's trustee directory assignments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwtrustee
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -l
.I volume number
] [
.B -L
.I volume name
] [
.B -O
.I object id
] [
.B -o
.I object name
] [
.B -t
.I object type
] [
.B -v
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwtrustee
lists the trustee directory assignments a user has on a specific volume.

.B nwtrustee
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwtrustee
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -O
.I object id
.RS 3
The bindery object id of the user whose assignments should be listed.
Alternatively, use -o object name.
.RE

.B -o
.I object name
.RS 3
The name of the user whose assignments should be listed.
.RE

.B -t
.I object type
.RS 3
The type of object whose assignments should be listed. This defaults to 1,
which means user. Another sensible value is 2, which means group.
.RE

.B -v
.RS 3
Verbose listing. Also list the specific rights that are assigned to the
user.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwtrustee was written by Jacek Stepniewski <cunio@gazeta.pl>.
This manual page was written by Volker Lendecke.
