.TH NWUSERLIST 1 7/22/1996 nwuserlist nwuserlist
.SH NAME
nwuserlist \- List Users logged in at a NetWare server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwuserlist
[ \fB-h\fP ] [ \fB-S\fP \fIserver\fP ] [ \fB-U\fP \fIuser name\fP ]
[ \fB-P\fP \fIpassword\fP | \fB-n\fP ] [ \fB-C\fP ] [ \fB-a\fP ]
[ \fB-q\fP ] [ \fB-f\fP [ \fB-d\fP ] [ \fB-D\fP ] [ \fB-t\fP ]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwuserlist
lists the users logged in at a NetWare server, together with their
connection number and their login time.

.B nwuserlist
looks up the file \fI$HOME/.nwclient\fP to find a file server, 
a user name and possibly a password. See \fBnwclient\fP(5) for 
more information. Please note that the access permissions of 
\fI$HOME/.nwclient\fP MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
\fB-h\fP is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
\fBserver\fP is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
\fBuser\fP is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
\fBpassword\fP is the password to use for login. If neither
\fB-n\fP nor \fB-P\fP are given, and the user has no open 
connection to the server, nwuserlist prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
\fB-n\fP should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -a
.RS 3
With option \fB-a\fP the IPX address of the station the user is logged in
from is printed as well.
.RE

.B -q
.RS 3
With option \fB-q\fP object ID is printed in addition to user name.
.RE

.B -f
.RS 3
List also files opened by each connection.
.RE

.B -d
.RS 3
List detailed informations about each file.
.RE

.B -D
.RS 3
List DOS filename instead of filename which was used for opening.
.RE

.B -t
.RS 3
Show raw hexadecimal values in addition to human readable conversions.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwuserlist was written by Volker Lendecke. See the Changes file of ncpfs
for other contributors.
