.TH NWVOLINFO 8 7/9/1996 nwvolinfo nwvolinfo
.SH NAME
nwvolinfo \- Diplay info on NetWare Volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwvolinfo
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -v
.I volume
] [
.B -N
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nwvolinfo
displays information on a NetWare Server Volume.

.B nwvolinfo
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of $HOME/.nwclient MUST be 600 for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the user name to use for login.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for login. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, nwvolinfo
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if no password is required for the login.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -v
.I volume
.RS 3
The volume name to be used. Defaults to 'SYS'.
.RE

.B -N
.RS 3
Display the information in numeric-only format for use in a pipe.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
nwvolinfo was written by Jacek Stepniewski <cunio@gazeta.pl> based on
utilities by Volker Lendecke.