.TH PQLIST 1 01/10/1996 pqlist pqlist
.SH NAME
pqlist \- List available NetWare print queues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pqlist
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
 |
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.I pattern
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pqlist
lists all the NetWare print queues available to you on some server.
If you are already connected to some server, this one is used.

If pqlist does not print to a tty, the decorative header line is
not printed, so that you can count the printing queue available
on your server by doing

  pqlist -S server | wc -l

.B pqlist
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of .nwclient MUST be 600, for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B pattern
.RS 3
.B pattern
is used to list only selected queues. You can use wildcards in the
pattern, but you have to be careful to prevent shell interpretation of
wildcards like '*'.
.RE

.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user name
.RS 3
If the user name your NetWare administrator gave to you differs
from your unix user-id, you should use
.B -U
to tell the server about your NetWare user name.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
You may want to give the password required by the server on the
command line. You should be careful about using passwords in scripts.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given to mount shares which do not require a password to log in.

If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, pqlist prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5), nprint(1), slist(1), ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8)

.SH CREDITS
pqlist was written by Volker Lendecke (lendecke@math.uni-goettingen.de)
