.TH PQSTAT 1 03/03/1998 pqstat pqstat
.SH NAME
pqstat \- List jobs in NetWare print queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pqstat
[
.B -h
] [
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
 |
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -B
]
.I queue name
[
.I job count
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pqstat
lists specified number of jobs from the specified NetWare print queue available
to you on some server. If you are already connected to some server, this one 
is used.

If pqstat does not print to a tty, the decorative header line is
not printed, so that you can count the jobs in print queue by doing

  pqstat -S server queue | wc -l

.B pqstat
looks up the file
.I $HOME/.nwclient
to find a file server, a user name and possibly a password. See
nwclient(5) for more information. Please note that the access
permissions of .nwclient MUST be 600, for security reasons.

.SH OPTIONS

.B queue name
.RS 3
.B queue name
is used to specify queue. You can not use wildcards in the name.
.RE

.B job count
.RS 3
.B job count
is used to specify how much entries will be shown. Default is to show all
entries.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user name
.RS 3
If the user name your NetWare administrator gave to you differs
from your unix user-id, you should use
.B -U
to tell the server about your NetWare user name.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
You may want to give the password required by the server on the
command line. You should be careful about using passwords in scripts.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given to mount shares which do not require a password to log in.

If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, pqstat prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -B
.RS 3
By default, pqstat lists the Netware name of the print job owner. 
.B -B
causes it to list the banner name instead.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5), nprint(1), slist(1), ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8), pqlist(1), pqrm(1)

.SH CREDITS
pqstat was written by David Woodhouse (dave@imladris.demon.co.uk)

