.TH PSERVER 1 10/22/1996 pserver pserver
.SH NAME
pserver \- NetWare print server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pserver
[
.B -S
.I server
] [
.B -h
] [
.B -U
.I user name
] [
.B -P
.I password
|
.B -n
] [
.B -C
] [
.B -q
.I queue name
] [
.B -c
.I command
] [
.B -j
.I job type
] [
.B -t
.I timeout
] [
.B -d
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pserver
is a program that connects to print queues on NetWare servers and
feeds incoming print jobs to the Linux printing system.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -h
.RS 3
.B -h
is used to print out a short help text.
.RE

.B -S
.I server
.RS 3
.B server
is the name of the server you want to use.
.RE

.B -U
.I user
.RS 3
.B user
is the print server name at the server.
.RE

.B -P
.I password
.RS 3
.B password
is the password to use for the print server at the server. If neither
.B -n
nor
.B -P
are given, and the user has no open connection to the server, pserver
prompts for a password.
.RE

.B -n
.RS 3
.B -n
should be given if the print server does not require a password.
.RE

.B -C
.RS 3
By default, passwords are converted to uppercase before they are sent
to the server, because most servers require this. You can turn off
this conversion by
.B -C.
.RE

.B -q
.I queue name
.RS 3
.B queue name 
is the name of the print queue you want to service.
.RE

.B -c
.I command
.RS 3
When a job is received from the print queue, pserver forks off a new
process, and feeds the job file to stdin.
.I command
is the printing command that is executed for each job. The default
command is 'lpr'.

You can insert several flags into the command, preceded by %. These
are replaced with values retrieved from the queue structure for the
print job.

%u: This field will be replaced by the name of the user who posted
this print job.

%d: This field will be replaced by the job description field of 
this print job.
.RE

.B -j
.I job type
.RS 3
Each job in a NetWare print queue has a job type. For print jobs, this
corresponds to the number of the form the job should be printed
on. You can tell pserver that it should only receive jobs for one
specific form from the queue. The default is -1, which means that
everything is received.
.RE

.B -t 
.I timeout
.RS 3
Pserver is not informed by NetWare servers when new jobs arrive. So a
polling scheme has to be used. When there are no jobs to service, 
.I timeout
tells pserver how long to wait between two requests. The default is 30
seconds. When a job is finished, pserver asks the NetWare server
immediately for a new job, and does not wait
.I timeout
seconds.
.RE

.B -d
.RS 3
Normally, pserver daemonizes itself. 
.B -d
tells it not to do so. This is useful if you want to see the
diagnostic messages that are printed when a error occurs.
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.B nwclient(5), slist(1), pqlist(1), ncpmount(8), ncpumount(8)

.SH CREDITS
pserver was written by Volker Lendecke (lendecke@math.uni-goettingen.de)
